

--- PAGE 1 ---

1
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
TTAA BB LL EE OO FF
CC OO NN TT EE NN TT SS
About STB
Vision & Mission
Values
An Interconnected World
Chairman’s Message
Chief Executive’s Message
Board of Directors
Senior Management
Business Groups
Tourism Sector Performance
Tourism Highlights
Envision: Transformation and Innovation
Embark: New Products and Experiences
Excite: Global Marketing and Partnerships
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
Annual Report 2022/2023
BTS
TUOBA
VISION & MISSION
VALUES
AN INTERCONNECTED WORLD

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STB is a statutory board under the Ministry
of Trade and Industry of Singapore. It is the
lead development agency for tourism, one of
Singapore’s key economic sectors. Together
with industry partners and the community, it
shapes a dynamic Singapore tourism landscape,
and brings the Passion Made Possible brand
to life by differentiating Singapore as a vibrant
destination that inspires people to share
and deepen their passions. STB ensures that
tourism remains an important and vibrant
economic pillar through long-term strategic
planning, and by forging partnerships, driving
innovation and promoting excellence in the
tourism sector.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
VISION
A vibrant and inspiring Destination
Singapore that we are proud of.
MISSION
To shape a dynamic tourism landscape
for Singapore in partnership with the
industry and community.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Values
CARE COURAGE INTEGRITY TEAM
Care for One Another Dare to Speak Behave Responsibly Succeed as a Team
We show empathy and care through We speak up and share our thoughts We are reliable, fair and honest in our We take responsibility for our
supportive actions and encouraging words with conviction and respect towards dealings with our stakeholders, partners individual roles and work together
for one another and the community. others. and colleagues. We uphold the Board’s to contribute to STB’s success.
reputation. We appreciate and recognise everyone’s
effort and celebrate success together.
Dare to Dream
Nurture One Another We challenge traditions, norms and PASSION
We promote a nurturing environment by assumptions with fresh ideas and Bond as a Team
Believe in Our Purpose
supporting, helping out and looking out for perspectives. We take bold steps to We seek to understand and respect
We are energetic, driven and believe in the
one another. experiment and translate ideas to plans individual differences. We make time to
purpose of our work.
for the future. have fun together and put smiles on one
another’s faces.
Driven to Excel
Respect for One Another Dare to Do
We love what we do and take pride in
We respect one another by listening to We endeavour to make a difference. Learn as a Team
delivering impactful and quality work.
other points of view with an open mind We believe in making wise decisions in We learn from one another by sharing
and recognising the contribution/effort of every circumstance, even if it means taking knowledge and resources and learning
one another. calculated risks in difficult or unclear from successes/failures to achieve team
situations. success together.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
REGIONAL OFFICES
An Interconnected World
AMERICAS EUROPE
STB’s mandate to grow Singapore’s tourism Americas, San Francisco United Kingdom, London Belgium, Brussels
sector is reinforced by a robust overseas Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
presence. Our global network of 19 999 Baker Way, Suite 120 Singapore Centre 143/4 Avenue Louise
offices and six marketing representatives/ San Mateo, California 94404 First Floor, Southwest House 1050 Brussels
PR agencies promotes Singapore as a United States of America 11A Regent Street Belgium
destination in seven key regions. London, SW1Y 4LR
Americas, New York City France, Paris
United Kingdom
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
589 Fifth Avenue Marketing Representative
Germany, Frankfurt
Suite 710 Interface Tourism France
Singapore Tourism Board
New York, NY 10017 16 Rue Ballu
WestendDUO
United States of America 75009 Paris, France
Bockenheimer Landstr. 24
D-60323 Frankfurt, Germany
Italy, Milan
Singapore Tourism Board
Marketing Representative
PR & GO UP Communication Partners
Fabio Filzi, 27
20124 Milan, Italy
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
REGIONAL OFFICES
An Interconnected World
GREATER CHINA INDIA, MIDDLE EAST NORTH ASIA
& SOUTH ASIA
Beijing Chengdu India, Mumbai Japan, Tokyo
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 3101-3106 Unit 2102, Raffles City Chengdu, Tower 2 Singapore Centre #3414 Marunouchi Building
China World Tower 1 No. 3 Section 4, South Renmin Road Unit 216-217, The Capital 2-4-1 Marunouchi
No.1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Chengdu, 610041 Bandra Kurla Complex Chiyoda-ku
Beijing 100004 People’s Republic of China Bandra (East) Tokyo 100-6334, Japan
People’s Republic of China Mumbai 400051, India
Hong Kong Korea, Seoul
Shanghai
Singapore Tourism Board PR Agency India, New Delhi
Singapore Tourism Board Ogilvy Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 1006-1008 15/F, K11 ATELIER Singapore Centre Singapore Centre
LuOne 728 King’s Road Unit 4A, 4th Floor 3F Seoul Finance Center
218 Xujiahui Road, Huangpu District Quarry Bay Aria Tower 136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu
Shanghai 200020 Hong Kong JW Marriott Asset Area 4 Seoul 04520, South Korea
People’s Republic of China Delhi Aerocity
Hospitality District
Guangzhou Taipei New Delhi 110037, India
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 6104 CITIC Plaza Marketing Representative
No.233 Tianhe North Road Connex Communications Co., Ltd
Guangzhou, Tianhe District 8F, No.9, Ln. 130 Sec. 3, Minsheng E. Road
Guangdong 510613 Songshan District
People’s Republic of China Taipei City 10596, Taiwan
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
REGIONAL OFFICES
An Interconnected World
OCEANIA SOUTHEAST ASIA
Australia, Sydney Indonesia, Jakarta Philippines, Manila
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
11th Floor AWA Building 19th Floor, Unit 01 Unit 704, Ayala Triangle Gardens Tower 2
47 York Street Maya Pada Tower 1 Ayala Avenue cor. Paseo de Roxas
Sydney NSW 2000, Australia Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 28 Makati City, Philippines 1226
Jakarta 12920, Indonesia
Australia, Melbourne
Singapore Tourism Board Indonesia, Surabaya Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh City
Marketing Representative Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
GTI Tourism Pakuwon Tower Unit 03, 11th Floor
Ms Kerrin Trenorden Unit 2101, Level 21 Saigon Centre, Tower 2
Kerrin.Trenorden@gtitourism.com.au Jalan Embong Malang No. 21-31 67 Le Loi, District 1
Surabaya, Indonesia 60261 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur Thailand, Bangkok
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Centre Business Development Representative
Lot 4-6-1, Level 4 Unit 1702-1703
Equatorial Plaza 17th Floor
Jalan Sultan Ismail Sathorn Square Office Tower
50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 98 North Sathorn Road
Silom, Bangrak
Bangkok 10500, Thailand
Mr Kornpiput Cheskhun
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
CHAIRMAN’S
MESSAGE
Mr Chaly Mah
Chairman
Singapore Tourism Board
Now that Singapore has fully reopened
and travel is picking up, what are some
of your reflections from COVID-19?
Our record international visitor arrivals (IVA) In 2022, we welcomed 6.3 million visitor
and tourism receipts (TR) achieved in 2019 arrivals, exceeding our forecast of four to six
were severely impacted by COVID-19. Despite million international visitors. For 2023, we
the immense challenges, I am very proud of remain cautiously optimistic and estimate that
how Singapore’s tourism sector responded IVA will reach around 12 to 14 million visitors
valiantly to the impact of the pandemic. STB by the end of the year, bringing in approximately
partnered with our industry to raise domestic S$18 to S$21 billion in TR.
advocacy for Singapore as a destination, helped
stakeholders rejuvenate our tourism offerings,
and developed new long-term areas of growth
such as sustainability and wellness.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
CHAIRMAN’S
MESSAGE
These rosy numbers are testament to the How is Singapore looking to drive future In early 2023, Singapore is proud to achieve
resilience of our tourism sector as well growth for the tourism sector? a new milestone as a sustainable destination
as STB’s relentless industry development under the Global Sustainable Tourism
efforts, even as our borders were closed to To strengthen tourism growth, we must Council’s (GSTC) Destination Criteria, making
international travel. Through the pandemic, we continue to enhance our destination us the first country in the world to meet
continued to work closely with our tourism attractiveness, engage our audience in the certification criteria. This is not only a
innovative ways and improve the capability and significant accomplishment for Singapore, but
businesses to introduce, refresh and upgrade
productivity of our tourism workforce. apt for a destination that is known by many
our offerings to ensure we would be ready
as a ‘City in Nature’. To push ahead with our
to welcome visitors with differentiated and
COVID-19 has given prominence to the
sustainability agenda, we now have clear
unique experiences once travel resumed. We
importance of physical and mental wellbeing
sustainability roadmaps for hotels and the
worked with the hotel industry to embark on globally and it is critical we capture this
MICE industry, and we will roll out the same
digital transformation to improve productivity demand and cater to the emerging needs of
for attractions in 2024.
and enhance their conference facilities to cater our consumers. In 2022, we inaugurated the
to virtual and/or hybrid meetings. Despite the Wellness Festival Singapore, and the 2023 Given the changing travel behaviour and
border closures, we continued to invest in edition expanded into a three-week affair, consumers’ needs, we continue to tap on
stakeholder engagement overseas to maintain involving more than 180 activations across 10 our global network of strategic partners
mindshare and promote Singapore as a safe precincts islandwide. Our tourism businesses to deepen market penetration and capture
place for meetings and conferences. These are also tapping on the vast potential of mindshare of present and future visitors
efforts have paid off, resulting in a packed wellness, which extends into diverse offerings to Singapore. In the last two years, STB has
calendar of MICE events in 2022 and 2023. of fitness classes and holistic therapies that forged more than 50 partnerships, ranging
cater to different interests. from airlines, financial institutions, online
Other highlights include the introduction of
travel agents, digital platforms and lifestyle
new attractions such as Museum of Ice Cream
aggregators – a promising sign that businesses
and Avatar: The Experience at Gardens by the
are regaining their confidence for investment
Bay, and new best-in-class events such as Tour
and collaboration in the tourism sector.
de France Prudential Singapore Criterium.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
CHAIRMAN’S
MESSAGE
“
We also made our first foray into the There is much to look forward to, and I am
metaverse by working with one of the confident that the resilience, steadfast passion
To strengthen tourism growth,
world’s most popular online game platforms, and dedication of our friends, partners
we must continue to enhance
Roblox, to explore creative ways to engage and stakeholders demonstrated during the
new audiences and connect with potential pandemic years, will help Singapore’s tourism our destination attractiveness,
travellers. sector to reach greater heights and thrive
engage our audience in
in any adversity. Moving forward, STB will
These efforts will be built on the foundation innovative ways and improve
continue the pursuit of our Quality Tourism
of a strong, resilient and progressive
the capability and productivity
strategy to boost Singapore’s appeal as a
workforce that is prepared to face challenges
leading global city for both business and of our tourism workforce.
of the future. We have been proactively
leisure.
collaborating with industry partners to attract
and retain talents in the tourism sector and
upskill workers to remain competitive. For
example, to set our sights for the next phase
of growth in the hotel industry, we launched
the Hotel Industry Transformation Map 2025
to future-proof the industry by creating
good jobs in emerging areas such as wellness,
sustainability, and technology.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
MESSAGE
Ms Melissa Ow
Chief Executive
Singapore Tourism Board
What were some of STB’s highlights in
2022 and 2023?
Tourism saw a rebound in 2022 and as STB is set to ride this renewed passion
international travel makes a strong comeback, for travel on several fronts. We launched
2023 is the year we ramp up our efforts to the SingapoReimagine recovery campaign
boost tourism growth. globally in March 2022, to catalyse short-
to-mid term consideration of Singapore as a
The pent-up desire[1] of people to explore the
travel destination. Through the campaign,
world again and immerse themselves in new
our audiences in key markets learnt
experiences positions the sector for growth.
about Singapore’s reimagined products
and experiences, building a desire to visit
Singapore.
[1] Based on Mastercard Economics Institute’s
“Travel 2022: Trends and Transitions” report
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
MESSAGE
We secured several new signature, large-scale To accommodate growing industry interest, How is STB marketing the destination
leisure events such as the Standard Chartered Food & Hotel Asia (FHA) 2022 took place as differently as we emerge from the
Singapore Trophy 2022 (May) and the Tour de two dedicated tradeshows in Singapore: FHA- pandemic?
France Prudential Singapore Criterium (Oct). Food and Beverage and FHA-Hotel, Restaurant
The pandemic has led to significant shifts in
We also worked with our partners to stage & Café, while Singapore Fintech Festival 2022
consumer behaviour, including an acceleration
the return of the Singapore Food Festival (Aug) drew its largest turnout since 2016.
of digital media and entertainment consumption
and Formula 1 Singapore Airlines Singapore
The robust line up of tourism activities and across multiple platforms and in different
Grand Prix (Sep) to strengthen the vibrancy of
events coupled with a resurgence of overall content formats. This has given rise to many
our destination. Formula 1 2022 saw a record
travel boosted our hotel industry performance. new opportunities for Singapore to market
attendance of 302,000, the highest number
From April to December 2022, the Average Destination Singapore’s unique features and
ever since the first race was held in Singapore
Occupancy Rate (AOR) was 79.1%, close to authentic stories. In line with these shifts, one
in 2008.
2019 pre-pandemic levels of 87.3%, while of the focus areas is on branded entertainment
Singapore’s MICE industry also made a robust Revenue per Available Room (RevPAR) had an partnerships in film, television, music and other
comeback in 2022. We launched new first-in- increase of 6.2% compared to the same period formats that can inspire travel to Singapore.
region events such as Agri-Food Tech Expo in 2019. We welcomed new and refreshed
Asia 2022 and welcomed the return of events hotel concepts, such as Citadines Connect
like Medical Fair Asia. Several notable business City Centre, Vibe Hotel Orchard and Pullman
events were held in Singapore for the first Singapore Orchard.
time, including the Global Health Security
Conference 2022 and Seafood Expo 2022.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
MESSAGE
Over the last two years, STB has inked multi- Singapore’s reputation as an outstanding
year partnerships with the likes of Warner business and leisure destination is
Bros. Discovery (WBD), Studio Dragon in far-reaching. How can we maintain
South Korea and iQIYI in China to market our status as a regional and global How is STB strengthening the industry
Singapore on a global scale. tourism hub? to enable continual tourism growth?
Together with the Infocomm Media
While our strategic geographical location A productive and trained workforce is a
Development Authority (IMDA), we launched
gives us outstanding connectivity, we want to cornerstone of our sector’s competitiveness.
a S$10 million “Singapore On-screen Fund”
strengthen ourselves as a hub that facilitates We launched the Tourism Careers Hub
to support development and production of
the flows of people, ideas and investments. (TCH), in partnership with e2i, in January
entertainment content that profiles Singapore.
2022 to provide career coaching, support for
This fund also provides our home-grown talents We will intensify our efforts to bring in more
upskilling and job matching for individuals and
with invaluable international opportunities MICE events, including the World Congress of
companies. As of December 2022, TCH had
to grow their capabilities and increase their Dermatology, Gastech Exhibition and Congress
placed 745 people in new roles and our tourism
exposure. etc, that will reinforce our global reputation as
workforce has recovered to about 80% of pre-
a business hub.
pandemic levels.
Another imperative is the need to sustain
a steady flow of leisure activities and events
throughout the year, with a broad range of
unique products and experiences. From the
opening of Bird Paradise to new sporting
events such as the Professional Triathletes
Organisation (PTO) Asian Open and the
hosting of headlining acts like Taylor Swift,
our calendar is looking more vibrant than ever
before.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
MESSAGE
“
Enhancing productivity and innovation Following the example of the Hotel Industry
through digital transformation is another Transformation Map and Hotel Industry Digital
We expect short term
critical focus. Concepts like extended reality Plan, STB, in partnership with the Association
headwinds and uncertainty
(XR) and Generative AI (GenAI) promise of Singapore Attractions (ASA), will develop
across the global economy, but
new opportunities for tourism, and some a digital transformation roadmap for the
stakeholders have harnessed these technologies attractions industry. The introduction of the working in partnership with
to create new experiences for visitors. Sentosa Attractions Tech Roadmap aims to be a guide our tourism stakeholders, we
Development Corporation, with the support that makes it easier for attractions to digitalise
are confident that the future of
of STB and GovTech, launched the world’s first and transform their key business functions like
Singapore’s tourism landscape
outdoor 5G-enabled XR experience at Fort customer service, sales and marketing.
Siloso, Sentosa. STB also partnered Google’s is bright and there is much to
ARCore to launch two new immersive look forward to.
Augmented Reality (AR) experiences around
Merlion Park and Victoria Theatre & Concert
Hall in our Visit Singapore app. Powered by
Google’s ARCore Geospatial API, visitors can
embark on an immersive guided tour, which
will be fully launched on our Visit Singapore
app by end 2023.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
MESSAGE
What do the years ahead spell for The two integrated resorts remain committed
Singapore tourism as a whole? to their multi-billion-dollar expansion plans,
which include a range of new amenities and
STB is optimistic about a full recovery of global
attractions. Plans to rejuvenate and transform
travel and tourism in the next few years. We
Orchard Road from a shopping street into
expect short term headwinds and uncertainty
a world-class lifestyle destination are well
across the global economy, but working in
underway. Sentosa has also launched its multi-
partnership with our tourism stakeholders,
year masterplan that will completely transform
we are confident that the future of Singapore’s
Singapore’s southern waterfront.
tourism landscape is bright and there is much
to look forward to. With wellness and sustainability emerging
as key travel considerations, STB hopes to
Disney Cruise Line has committed to
work with our industry to strengthen their
homeporting a brand-new Disney cruise ship
competitiveness in these areas and enhance
exclusively in Singapore for at least five years,
our destination offerings to address these
beginning in 2025. Their choice of Singapore
demands.
for their Southeast Asia debut is a firm
endorsement of Southeast Asia’s potential for I am confident that Singapore will be an
cruising. attractive and vibrant destination for both
tourists and locals. The sector will continue
to transform and attract new talents into
the industry and contribute economically to
Singapore. Tourism will also improve the quality
of life for Singaporeans and make Singapore a
home that we are proud of.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 18 ---

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
18
Mr Chaly Mah Mr Olivier Lim Ms Melissa Ow
Chairman Deputy Chairman Chief Executive
Mr Chaly Mah had served in Deloitte for over 38 Mr Olivier Lim is currently lead independent director of Ms Melissa Ow assumed the appointment of Chief
years. Prior to his retirement on 31 May 2016, he was DBS Group Holdings Ltd and DBS Bank Ltd, and Chairman Executive of the Singapore Tourism Board on 1 June
CEO of Deloitte Asia Pacific and Chairman of Deloitte of PropertyGuru Group Ltd, Certis CISCO Security Pte 2023.
Singapore, and Vice Chairman of Deloitte Global Board Ltd and StarHub Ltd. He is a Deputy Chairman on Singapore
From 2020 to 2023, Ms Ow served as the Executive
of Directors. He has extensive experience serving both Tourism Board and a Director of Raffles Medical Group.
Vice President for Customer Experience, Marketing
multinat ional and local companies across a wide He serves on the MAS Securities Industry Council.
& Investment Facilitation Group at the Economic
spectrum of industries, specialising in financial services,
Mr Lim was previously Chairman of the following: ASX Development Board (EDB), where she played a key
telecommunications and technology, real estate, private
listed Australand Holdings Limited, Frasers Property role in transforming the organisation’s B2B sales and
equity and manufacturing.
Australia, globalORE Pte Ltd, Mount Faber Leisure Group, marketing model. She drove the global promotion of
Mr Mah is currently Chairman of Surbana Jurong Group and the Advisory Council of the Singapore CFO Institute. Singapore’s business brand and EDB’s marketing and
and Netlink NBN Management Pte Ltd. He is also a board communications in key markets such as Europe, US,
He has also held directorships in several SGX-listed
member of CapitaLand Investment Limited, Flipkart China and Japan. Through enhancing EDB’s customer
companies including Banyan Tree Holdings, CapitaMalls
Pte Ltd, Monetary Authority of Singapore and the engagement capabilities, she led her teams to raise new
Asia, and served on the Boards of JTC Corporation,
National University of Singapore and SG Eco Fund Board investments from foreign companies.
Sentosa Development Corporation and the Accounting and
of Trustee.
Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA). Prior to EDB, Ms Ow had several positions in STB with
the last position as Deputy Chief Executive, where she
led STB to put Singapore on the world map for hosting
premier events and attracting major tourism investments.
As Deputy Chief Executive, she headed the Experience
Development Group and the Corporate Group and
was responsible for ensuring that Singapore had a strong
line-up of quality tourism products spanning events,
dining, retail, and sports to entertainment, new tourism
concepts development, and precincts development.
Ms Ow also oversaw STB’s corporate functions such
as legal, procurement and corporate administration,
finance and human resources.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 19 ---

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
19
Mr Aaron Shahril
Mrs Wong Ai Ai Mr Arthur Lang
Yusoff Maniam
Mr Aaron Shahril Yusoff Maniam served as Deputy Mrs Wong Ai Ai is Former Principal at Baker McKenzie. Mr Arthur Lang is the Group Chief Financial Officer of
Secretary (Industry and Information) at the Ministry of Wong & Leow, where she led a range of landmark Singtel and his responsibilities include the management
Communications and Information from 1 January 2020 transactions for blue-chip clients, to global management of the International Group that oversees the Group’s
to 26 May 2023. He is currently Fellow of Practice and and leadership roles at the highest levels of the firm, regional associates and its portfolio of strategic telecom
Director, Digital Transformation Education at the Blavatnik including serving as a member of its Global Executive investments. He spearheads Singtel’s ongoing digital bank
School of Government, University of Oxford. Committee and chair of its Asia Pacific region. joint venture with Grab.
From September 2014 to September 2017, Mr Maniam As a transactional lawyer, Mrs Wong has been recognised as Before joining Singtel, Mr Lang was the Group CFO of
was Senior Director (Industry) at the Ministry of Trade a leading individual and eminent practitioner for corporate/ CapitaLand, where he also ran CapitaLand’s real estate
and Industry, where he was responsible for coordinating M&A matters by publications including Chambers Asia investment management business. Prior to CapitaLand,
economic policies and regulating the manufacturing, Pacific, Legal 500 Asia Pacific and IFLR1000. he was at Morgan Stanley where he was Co-head of the
services and tourism sectors, as well as overseeing long- Southeast Asia investment banking division and Chief
She is a Justice of the Peace, a member of the Public
term economic transformation. Operating Officer of the Asia Pacific investment banking
Service Commission’s Disciplinary Panel of Persons and a
division.
Mr Maniam has held various positions in the Civil Service, member of the Board of Visiting Judges (BOVJ) and Board
including postings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the of Inspection (BOI) appointed by the Ministry of Home Mr Lang was appointed as Chairman of the National Kidney
Strategic Policy Office and Centre for Strategic Futures at Affairs, Singapore. Foundation in Nov 2020. He is also a board member of
the Public Service Division. India listed Bharti Airtel, Thailand listed Intouch Holdings
Mrs Wong was a founding steering committee member of
and AIS, GXS Digital Bank and the Straits Times School
Climate Governance Singapore Limited, a World Economic
Pocket Money Fund.
Forum led initiative to educate non-executive directors
on the opportunities and challenges for their companies
arising from climate change and its consequences.
She is a strong advocate for, and a former Chairman of,
the Yellow Ribbon Fund, the first national charitable
fund devoted entirely towards the development and
implementation of rehabilitation and reintegration
programmes for ex-offenders and their families.
Mr Aaron Maniam retired from the STB Board
with effect from 21 July 2023.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 20 ---

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
20
Ms Audrey Kuah Mr Lim Eng Hwee Dr Ho Kaiwei
Ms Audrey Kuah is currently the APAC Chief Executive Mr Lim Eng Hwee is the Chief Executive Officer of the Dr Ho Kaiwei started out his career as a medical doctor
Officer of Wunderman Thompson, where she oversees Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) with effect from with SingHealth in 2005, and later joined the Ministry of
the creative and strategic growth of the business across 1st September 2017. URA is Singapore’s national planning Health (MOH) in 2006. Besides completing his training
the APAC region. Prior to that, she served as Head, agency, responsible for the physical planning and urban as a Public Health physician, he has rotated through
Group Marketing, Global Consumer Financial Services of development of Singapore. various divisions in MOH, including Health Regulation,
the OCBC Bank, where she drove business and growth Communicable Diseases, and Healthcare Finance. He was
Mr Lim was formerly the Chief Planner and Deputy Chief
focused marketing initiatives. Director (Operations Policy and Strategy Development) at
Executive Officer of URA from 2009 to 2017. He has
the Ministry of Manpower in 2015, and Director (Security
As the former Executive Director of Media Practice – extensive experience in urban planning, urban design,
& Resilience Programmes) at the Ministry of Finance
Dentsu Aegis Network Asia Pacific, she was responsible for implementation of land use policies and development
from 2018 to 2023. He joined MOH as Deputy Secretary
the evolution of the business model and future capabilities. initiatives. He also served in the Ministry of National
(Development) from Aug 2023 and is a member of the STB
She was also Managing Director of Dentsu Aegis’ Group’s Development and Ministry of Trade and Industry.
Board with effect from 14 Aug 2023.
first global R&D centre, Global Data Innovation Centre,
He served as a member in the Boards of Land Transport
located in Singapore, where she was responsible for the
Authority, Singapore Cooperation Enterprise and
development of proprietary and future forward marketing
Singapore Science Centre. He currently also sits on the
platforms that combined machine learning, artificial
Board of the National Environment Agency.
intelligence, cloud technology and the deep marketing
expertise of Dentsu Group. Ms Kuah was also its Chief
Client Officer, Southeast Asia and former Singapore CEO.
Ms Kuah’s expertise in marketing, digital and advertising
has been deployed across industries and geographies, for
more than two decades. Ms Kuah is active in the industry
and was most recently on the board of the Intellectual
Property Office of Singapore International.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 21 ---

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
21
Ms Thien Kwee Eng Mr Rajeev Menon Mr Ravi Thakran
Ms Thien Kwee Eng is the Chief Executive Officer of Having spent over 22 years of his career with Marriott Mr Ravi Thakran served in many senior roles in several
Sentosa Development Corporation (SDC). As SDC’s CEO, International, Mr Rajeev Menon is currently President business verticals of the LVMH Group. Over two decades
Ms Thien steers the vision and development of Sentosa for Marriott International Inc, Asia Pacific excluding at LVMH, Mr Thakran served as President, Sephora Asia,
as a leading and unique leisure destination for both locals China (APEC). He is responsible for the overall business CEO for LVMH Watches & Jewelry Asia and eventually
and tourists, as well as the landmark Sentosa-Brani Master performance and development of the company across 21 assumed the roles of Group President for LVMH Asia in
Plan to redevelop the two islands into a game-changing countries in the Asia Pacific region with over 550 operating 2008 and Group Chairman for LVMH Asia in 2014.
leisure and tourism destination. hotels & resorts under 24 unique brands. Marriott also has
Mr Thakran also founded L Capital Asia in 2008 and led
the largest construction pipeline in the region with over
Prior to this, Ms Thien was the Executive Vice President it as Chairman and Managing Partner from its inception.
300 hotels under development. Mr Menon is a passionate
of the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB) Mr Thakran led the development of L Capital Asia which
hotelier and has risen through the ranks, with a career in
overseeing EDB’s global customer experience, marketing went on to become one of the largest consumer-focused
hospitality spanning over three decades.
and investment facilitation activities. Ms Thien has growth investors in Asia. With L Capital Asia, Mr Thakran
held leadership roles in investment promotion and Before being promoted to the APEC President in October invested in over 42 companies across Asia Pacific, including
industry development across various sectors during her 2019, Mr Menon served as the Chief Operating Officer China’s No. 1 beauty company, China No. 1 womanwear’s
time in EDB, including Consumer and Lifestyle businesses, (COO) for APEC from March 2015 through September brand, China No. 1 menswear’s brand, India No. 1 ethic
Health and Wellness, as well as Infocomm and Media. 2019. Under his leadership, Marriott has been recognised wear brand, India No. 1 cinema chain, Asia No. 1 shoes
She has also led corporate-wide initiatives to catalyse new as one of the top performing international hotel companies and bags brand, leading eyewear brand from Korea, iconic
business creation and innovation in large corporations. in APEC and has received numerous awards, including footwear brand from Australia, beauty and eyewear brand
the best employer award for several years. From August in Japan and several other fashion, beauty, watches and
From 2000 to 2001, Ms Thien was the Business
2007 till February 2015, Mr Menon served as Area Vice jewelry, fitness & wellness brand from Japan, Korea,
Development Director of Asiacontent.com’s business
President for South Asia, as well as Pakistan, Malaysia, and Taiwan, Hong Kong, SEA, India and Middle East. Seven
in China. She also served as First Secretary (Trade and
Australia during various periods of his assignment. of these companies crossed $1 billion in annual revenues.
Industry) at the Embassy of Singapore in Beijing from 2001
Mr Thakran served on the board of several of these
to 2004 and was responsible for promoting Singapore- Mr Menon has been recognised over the years through
companies, including seven listed companies on Shanghai,
China trade and industry relations. numerous awards for his contribution to the hotel industry
Hong Kong, Korea and Indian stock exchanges and as
in Asia Pacific.
Ms Thien also serves on the Board of the Singapore Food Chairman of the board for five others.
Agency. Today, apart from overseeing Marriott’s business in APEC,
Prior to his time at LVMH, Mr Thakran held senior
Mr Menon also holds the position of Vice Chair on the
management positions at the Swatch Group, Nike and the
Tourism Committee and is a member of the Board of the
Tata Group.
US/ASEAN Business Council. He is also a member of the
Board of the Singapore Hotel Association. Beyond his corporate responsibilities, Mr Thakran serves
on Board of Harrods London, Director of Wheels Up,
Business Ambassador for Latin America in South East
Asia, and Trustee of the Global Conservation Corps. He
is also involved in the Federal Commission on Fashion and
Women’s Wellness in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Indian
Partition Museum, Amritsar, Indian Heritage Museum,
Singapore and Save the Rhino Project, South Africa.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 22 ---

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
22
Mr Mohamad
Ms Soh Siew Choo
Saiful Saroni
Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni has been a partner in Ms Soh Siew Choo is the Chief Information Officer for Asia
PricewaterhouseCoopers Singapore since 2012. He started at Metlife. She is responsible for the end-to-end technology
in PwC as an associate in 2000 and has more than 20 years of delivery partnering with the business to build leading digital
experience in the audit industry, three of which were spent experiences for customers.
on secondment to the PwC US Firm in its San Francisco
Prior to Metlife, Ms Soh was the Head of Technology for
office. He is also one of the Firm’s partner contacts as it
Consumer Banking & Big Data/AI at DBS Bank. She was
relates to US Accounting and Auditing matters as well as
responsible for driving the digital transformation and AI-
US-bound cross border security transactions. Mr Saroni’s
driven agenda adopting truly Agile ways of working and
areas of specialty are in the Energy, Utilities and Mining as
cloud native architecture.
well as Technology and Transport sectors. He is actively
involved in the audits of SEC registrants. Ms Soh has over two decades of experience in senior
technology leadership roles in the Corporate & Investment
Mr Saroni also sits on the Board of Mercy Relief and is also a
Bank, working for JPMorgan across Singapore, Tokyo and
member of M3 Advisory Council, as well as the Woodlands
Hong Kong prior to joining DBS.
Citizen Consultative Committee.
She is also an avid advocate of Women in Technology,
He is a member of ISCA, as well as a member of the
driving many innovative initiatives in the areas of
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
mentorship, allyship, recruitment and retention amongst
others. She was named as an honoree in the Women
Leaders in AI award by IBM in 2019 and 2021. She was
also recognised as an awardee in the inaugural Singapore
100 Women in Tech in 2020, organised by IMDA/Singapore
Computer Society of Singapore. In addition, Ms Soh was
conferred with the Distinguished Computing Alumni
Service Award, from her alma mater, National University of
Singapore (NUS) School of Computing, for bringing honour
to NUS in her chosen endeavours in her career.
Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni retired from the
Board with effect from 31 December 2022.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
Ms Melissa Ow Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Juliana Kua
Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Assistant Chief Executive
Corporate Group & & World Expo Advisor
Experience Development Group International Group
Mr Kenneth Lim Ms Ong Huey Hong Mr Wong Ming Fai
Assistant Chief Executive Assistant Chief Executive & Chief Technology Officer & QSM
Marketing Group Chief Sustainability Officer Technology Transformation Group
Policy and Planning Group
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
BUSINESS
GROUPS
Corporate Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Hazel Teh Ms Ong Siew Hwee
Deputy Chief Executive Director Director
Corporate Group & Compliance & Corporate Services Finance
Experience Development Group
Ms Aileen Wong Mr Alfred Chiam Ms Geraldine Yeo
Director Head Principal Specialist
Human Resources & Internal Audit* (Learning)
Organisation Development Chairman’s Office
Mr Evan Koh
*The Internal Audit reports functionally to the
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) Director
and administratively to the Chief Executive Legal
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
BUSINESS
GROUPS
Marketing Group
Mr Kenneth Lim Ms Choo Huei Miin Ms Kwan Su Min
Assistant Chief Executive Director Director
Marketing Group Brand Communications
Ms Lilian Chee Ms Georgina Koh Mr John Gregory Conceicao
Director Director Executive Director
Industry Marketing Marketing Activation Marketing Partnerships,
Planning & Capability Development
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 26 ---

26
BUSINESS
GROUPS
Experience
Development Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Ashlynn Loo Ms Lim Shoo Ling
Deputy Chief Executive Director Director
Corporate Group & Attractions, Entertainment Arts & Cultural Precincts
Experience Development Group & Tourism Concept Development
Dr Edward Koh Mr Poh Chi Chuan Ms Guo Teyi
Executive Director Executive Director Director
Conventions, Meetings Exhibitions & Conferences Retail & Dining
& Incentive Travel
Ms Ong Ling Lee
Executive Director
Sports & Wellness
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 27 ---

27
BUSINESS
GROUPS
Policy & Planning Group
Ms Ong Huey Hong Ms Jacqueline Ng Ms Tan Yen Nee
Assistant Chief Executive & Director Executive Director
Chief Sustainability Officer Cruise Hospitality
Policy & Planning Group
Ms Ranita Sundramoorthy Ms Cherie Lee Ms Dong Limin
Executive Director Director Director
Infrastructure Planning & Management Strategic Planning & Incentive Policy Tourism Human Capital & Sustainability
Ms Annie Chang
Director
Travel Agents & Tourist Guides
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 28 ---

28
BBUUSSIINNEESSSS
GGRROOUUPPSS
Technology
Transformation Group Mr Wong Ming Fai Ms Karen Ann Leong Ms Serene Fong
Chief Technology Officer & QSM Chief Director
Technology Transformation Group The Collaboratory Data Science & Analytics
Ms Shameem Mustaffa Ms Goh Kershing Ms Chew Chien Way
Chief Data Officer & Chief Records Officer Senior Vice President Director
Data Strategy & Governance Office Future Tourism Industry Technology Transformation
Ms Wong Chin Hwei Ms Jue Lu
Director Director
Information Services Chief Experience Officer
Visitor Experience & User Experience
Centre of Excellence
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 29 ---

29
BUSINESS
GROUPS
International Group
Ms Juliana Kua Ms Rachel Loh Ms Carrie Kwik
Assistant Chief Executive Senior Vice President Executive Director
& World Expo Advisor Americas Europe
International Group
Mr Andrew Phua Mr G B Srithar Mr Oliver Chong
Chief Representative & Regional Director Executive Director
Executive Director India, Middle East, International Group HQ
Greater China South Asia & Africa & Oceania
Ms Serene Tan Mr Terrence Voon Mr Markus Tan
Regional Director Executive Director Director
North Asia Southeast Asia World Expo
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 30 ---

30
Annual Report 2022/2023
ROTCES
MSIRUOT
ECNAMROFREP

--- PAGE 31 ---

31
TOURISM
SECTOR
PERFORMANCE
Tourism Receipts International Visitor Arrivals
2022
(S$B) (Million People)
27.7
OVERVIEW 26.9
In 2022, the reopening of borders catalysed the
revival of the tourism sector, as evidenced by
a remarkable surge in both Tourism Receipts
(TR) and International Visitor Arrivals (IVA). TR
for the year was recorded at S$14.18 billion,
representing a 649% increase from the previous
19.1
year. The IVA figures showed a strong increase 18.5
of 1,811%, with 6.3 million visitors logged for
the year.
14.18
6.3
4.8
2.7 0.3
1.89
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 32 ---

32
TOURISM
SECTOR
PERFORMANCE
2022
TOURISM RECEIPTS BY MAJOR COMPONENTS
An overall increase of 649% was recorded from the previous year as there was a significant
increase in tourism receipts across all major components: Shopping (+1,496%), Accommodation
(+410%), F&B (+566%), SEG (+947%) and Other TR Components (565%).
Shopping Accommodation Food Sightseeing, Other TR
& Beverage Entertainment Components
(F&B) & Gaming
(SEG)
% change
vs 2021 +1,496% +410% +566% +947% +565%
% Share 20% 21% 9% 16% 34%
Tourism 2.78 2.96 1.28 2.34 4.81
Receipts
(S$B)
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 33 ---

33
TOURISM
Shopping Accommodation Food & Other TR Components % Change vs 2021
SECTOR Beverage
2022 TR (F&B) Tourism Visitor
(S$Mil) Receipts Arrivals
PERFORMANCE
Overall 14,180 20% 21% 9% 34% 649% 1,811%
2022
China 602.3 18% 33% 8% 41% 12% 48%
TOURISM RECEIPTS BY
MAJOR COMPONENTS, Indonesia 1,720 35% 16% 7% 41% 807% 3,200%
TOP 10 MARKETS
India 1,070 25% 23% 13% 38% 1,026% 1,162%
In 2022, tourism receipts amounted to
an estimated S$14.18 billion, with the top
three markets comprising: Indonesia (S$1.72 USA 9099%.7 9% 26% 7% 58% 1,162% 2,806%
billion), Australia (S$1.09 billion), and
India (S$1.07 billion). These three markets
Malaysia 623.4 29% 32% 11% 28% 810% 2,340%
accounted for 27% of all tourism receipts
(not including Sightseeing, Entertainment
and Gaming).
Australia 1,090 15% 23% 8% 54% 2,009% 5,528%
Phillippines 499.5 38% 20% 11% 32% 1,896% 3,223%
Thailand 415.1 33% 28% 12% 27% 2,442% 6,373%
Vietnam 431.8 41% 20% 15% 24% 990% 8,980%
UK 51402%.4 10% 26% 9% 55% 1,399% 2,551%
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 34 ---

34
Annual Report 2022/2023
MSIRUOT
STHGILHGIH
ENVISION
EMBARK
EXCITE

--- PAGE 35 ---

35
ENVISION TRANSFORMATION AND INNOVATION
Certification of Singapore Global MICE
From embracing technological
innovations to deepening our as a sustainable destination Sustainability Alliance
sustainability efforts, we are making
bolder, more visionary moves to
transform and future-proof the
tourism sector.
Photo Credit: Singapore Association of Convention
& Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers (SACEOS)
Singapore was certified a sustainable To support our vision of becoming one of Asia
destination based on the Global Sustainable Pacific’s leading sustainable MICE destinations
Tourism Council (GSTC) Destination Criteria, by 2030, STB partnered six key players,
becoming the first to apply the Criteria on a through a Global MICE Sustainability Alliance,
country-level. This certification demonstrates to commit to future-proofing the industry. The
Singapore’s efforts and commitment in initiative aims to meet the growing demand for
becoming a sustainable urban destination, sustainable business travel by reducing waste
where large experiences come with small and the carbon footprint of exhibitions through
footprints. a two-pronged approach of exploring new and
innovative green solutions and driving industry
awareness and education.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 36 ---

36
ENVISION
Launch of Tourism
Sustainability Strategy
Launch of the MICE and Tourism Sustainability Integrated Resorts awarded
Sustainability Roadmap Programme sustainability accreditations
In consultation with tourism stakeholders from Marina Bay Sands (MBS) and Resorts World
the attraction, cruise, hotel, MICE and tour Sentosa (RWS) were accorded the Events
industries, and in alignment with the Singapore Industry Council (EIC) Sustainable Events
Green Plan 2030, STB developed the Tourism Standards for Venues (Platinum) certification.
Sustainability Strategy to capture opportunities MBS also became the largest hotel in Singapore
in sustainable travel. The Tourism Sustainability to be certified under the GSTC Industry
Programme was launched alongside it to Criteria for Hotels and Accommodation.
support tourism businesses across all stages
of their sustainability journey by equipping
businesses with tools to build their workforce
capabilities and develop innovative solutions to
capture opportunities from sustainable travel.
To position Singapore as one of the most
sustainable MICE destinations in Asia Pacific,
STB convened the MICE Sustainability Summit
with the Singapore Association of Convention
& Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers (SACEOS)
in December 2022, where the MICE
Sustainability Roadmap was launched. The
roadmap sets clear targets and strategies to
raise sustainability standards and certification
across Singapore’s MICE industry.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 37 ---

37
ENVISION
Raising sustainability and
technological capabilities in
the hotel industry
Following the launch of the Hotel Sustainability STB has assisted over 70 hotels in adopting tech
Roadmap in March 2022, Singapore Hotel solutions with proven productivity outcomes,
Association (SHA) and STB have worked such as digital concierge apps, delivery and
closely with the industry to raise sustainability cleaning robots as well as RFID asset tagging.
standards and develop capabilities, especially in
the areas of certification and emissions tracking.
With STB’s support, hotels such as Grand
Copthorne Waterfront, Sofitel Singapore City
Centre and Novotel & Mercure on Stevens
have adopted in-room water filtration solutions,
eliminating up to 4.6 million single-use plastic
water bottles and driving 592,000 kilogrammes
of emissions savings across eight hotels annually.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 38 ---

38
ENVISION
To rise above the challenges posed by
Launch of the Hotel Industry Supporting the hotel industry
the labour crunch, STB collaborated with
partners in the public and private sector Transformation Map 2025 to bolster manpower
on transformation roadmaps and training
schemes. STB launched the Hotel Industry To enable the industry to rebound quickly and
Transformation Map 2025 in October 2022, capture rising demand after the lifting of travel
which aims to create a compelling, innovative restrictions, a wide range of STB initiatives
and sustainable hotel industry, supported by and schemes have aided hotels in attracting
a strong local workforce. The roadmap lays locals to join the sector, including the Training
out strategies to achieve real value-added Industry Professionals in Tourism (TIP-iT)
growth of 5.9% from 2020 to 2025 and create grant scheme for the upskilling or reskilling of
good jobs in emerging areas such as wellness, hotel workers, the Tourism Careers Hub to
sustainability, and technology. facilitate job matching in the hotel industry
and collaborations with Workforce Singapore
to drive adoption of Career Conversion
Programmes.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 39 ---

39
ENVISION
Partnership with Singapore
Hotel Association (SHA) and
Agoda to sponsor training Sands Hospitality
for hotel professionals Scholarship Programme
STB and SHA supported Agoda in launching With the aim of developing new talent and in line
a first-in-the-region initiative that sponsors with their commitment to support Singapore’s
50 hotel professionals to attend a Global economic and tourism goals, Marina Bay Sands
Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC) and parent company Las Vegas Sands unveiled a
sustainability course, in a bid to accelerate the US$1 million bond-free Hospitality Scholarship
hotel industry’s sustainability transformation. programme, which will benefit more than 100
Singaporean students pursuing hospitality or
tourism-related courses at six Institutes of
Higher Learning (IHLs).
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 40 ---

40
ENVISION
STB and its partners embraced
Launch of the E-Visitor
technology-led projects to enhance the
tourism sector’s future readiness. Hotel Innovation Authentication (EVA)-Ready
Challenge Asia Programme
STB’s E-Visitor Authentication (EVA) System
assists hotels in automating their check-in
processes, with an expected reduction in hotel
check-in time of up to 70%. In October 2022,
STB launched the EVA-ready Programme to
help hotels reduce the onboarding time of EVA.
This programme identifies vendors with self-
check-in solutions that are able to interface
with EVA.
Photo Credit: FHA-Food & Beverage
The tripartite collaboration of STB, SHA and
Informa launched the inaugural Hotel Innovation
Challenge Asia, which received a record
of over 100 submissions of proposed tech
innovations to address pain points and capture
growth opportunities. Eight finalists showcased
solutions at FHA-HoReCa 2022, where an
Audience Choice Award was introduced to
recognise the solution that garnered the most
votes from trade visitors.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 41 ---

41
ENVISION
STB and its partners embraced technology-
Tcube
led projects to enhance the tourism sector’s
preparedness for the future.
Under “Test” pillar, STB partners tourism
businesses to bring ideas to life through
experimentation. For example, Gardens by
the Bay trialled the use of Augmented Reality
(AR) in a gamified storytelling application. The
proof-of-concept aims to enhance the visitors’
experience in physical location through task
completion and collection of AR filters to
elevate their photo-taking experience.
Tcube is a hybrid innovation space that Under “Build” pillar, the industry can leverage a
brings STB’s digital initiatives and resources suite of smart services developed by STB, such
onto a single platform. The resources and as the Singapore Tourism Analytics Network
digital initiatives available on Tcube are (Stan) and Tourism Information & Services Hub
organised under the three-step Learn-Test- (TIH). These services provide businesses with
Build framework. More than 1,100 tourism access to data and shared content, enabling
companies have benefited from Tcube them to drive innovation and make informed
programmes. decisions about their operations.
Under “Learn” pillar, STB appointed 10 Tcube
champions in Tcube connect – a community
for tourism stakeholders to form networks,
share knowledge and facilitate partnerships.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 42 ---

42
ENVISION
New features launched on
Singapore Tourism Analytics Transition to Issuance of
Network (Stan) Digital Travel Agent Licences
The Singapore Tourism Analytics Network
(Stan) released additional dashboards, a data
domain, as well as a new Sandbox feature – a
secure co-creation space where a small group
of tourism businesses may collaborate to build
and test analytical use cases and models. Stan
As part of STB’s efforts to embrace technology,
has currently benefited over 400 tourism
new Travel Agent (TA) licences are now issued
companies.
digitally via the Travel Agents and the Tourist
Guides Licensing System (TRUST). This shift
has significantly reduced the waiting time for
new TA licensees, and enhanced public trust by
enabling real-time verification of licences.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 43 ---

43
EMBARK NEW PRODUCTS AND EXPERIENCES
Despite the unprecedented challenges
Resumption of large-scale
brought about by the pandemic, we
led our sector to successfully navigate MICE events ITB Asia
through them and emerged stronger
together. We are now ready to set our
sights on the future, where a thriving
and vibrant Destination Singapore
beckons.
Photo Credit: SuperReturn
Following the relaxation of Safe Management ITB Asia, the leading event for the Asia
Measures (SMMs) in April 2022, Singapore saw Pacific travel industry, returned after a two-
a steady resumption of large-scale MICE events year hiatus. Over 500 exhibitors and 13,000
such as Food & Hotel Asia (FHA) 2022, Yum! travel professionals attended the three-day
Brands’ International Franchise Convention trade show. The Singapore Pavilion at ITB
2023, World Aquaculture 2022 and World Asia was expanded this year as we saw higher
Stroke Congress 2022. The World Stroke participation from Singapore travel trade
Congress 2022 had a few notable city-wide partners to promote new and refreshed
activations, including a walkathon, which raised tourism offerings and experiences. For the
S$68,000 for the local stroke community and first time, there was also a special display for
saw 17 iconic landmarks across the country products under the Made With Passion brand
illuminated in blue to support World Stroke to further dial up our destination branding as a
Day. Singapore also welcomed inaugural events place where passions are realised.
such as SuperReturn Asia, FIND Design Fair
Asia and Asia CEO Summit.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 44 ---

44
EMBARK
Singapore was buzzing with a wide variety
27 Pasir Panjang
of new leisure events and experiences to
cater to both locals and tourists. Power Station Anime Festival Asia
Photo Credit: 24OWLS by Aloysius Lim and Alvin Ho Photo Credit: Anime Festival Asia
27 Pasir Panjang Power Station came alive with Anime Festival Asia 2022, an annual Japanese
music events such as Seasons in Sessions, a new anime and pop culture festival, drew a record-
hybrid concept that leveraged technology to breaking crowd of over 145,000 attendees. The
create kinetic light art installations with music- festival introduced the inaugural AFAVerse, a
synchronised movement and unprecedented phygital experience where visitors received a
VR-powered front-row access for remote special NFC-enabled band to earn coins and
viewers. It also included the women-led unlock virtual easter eggs.
music festival Alex Blake Charlie, with new
programming that included film screenings, an
art exhibition, a supper club, a book club and a
club night hosted by female DJs.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 45 ---

45
EMBARK
New launches at
Artbox Singapore ArtScience Museum ART SG
Photo Credit: Marina Bay Sands
ArtScience Museum welcomed a new gallery Organised by The Art Assembly, ART SG
called “Exploring New Frontiers” at the 2023 was Southeast Asia’s largest ever art
Museum’s permanent exhibit, Future World: fair and the biggest art fair in Asia Pacific in
Where Art Meets Science, and incorporated a decade, having welcomed over 42,000
its first purpose-built screening room, the visitors. Launched during Singapore Art Week,
Photo Credit: Artbox Singapore
ArtScience Cinema. it featured a line-up of 164 galleries from 35
Artbox Singapore launched a new indoor
countries and territories worldwide alongside
concept at Singapore EXPO that combined
curated talks and film programmes.
street food, music and Instagrammable vibes
to create a unique shopping destination.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 46 ---

46
EMBARK
Avatar: The Experience Children’s Museum Singapore Explorers of Sentosa
Photo Credit: Avatar: The Experience Photo Credit: Children’s Museum Singapore Photo Credit: Sentosa Development Corporation
Set in the Cloud Forest at Gardens by the Bay, Housed in a historic double-storey colonial Thomas Dambo, an internationally renowned
with its iconic vision of waterfalls, spiralling building that dates back to 1906 and once recycling artist known for his larger-than-
walkways and a unique architectural glass home to the Singapore Philatelic Museum, life recycled art sculptures with dramatic
greenhouse, Avatar: The Experience invited Singapore’s first dedicated children’s museum storytelling and experiential elements, launched
guests to connect with the alien world of – the Children’s Museum Singapore – is built his mixed-media installations at Palawan Beach,
Pandora, its bioluminescent environment and on the vision of being a place of wonder and Sentosa. The four giant sculptures are made
mystical creatures. joyful learning for all children to engage with from approximately 5.5 tonnes of reclaimed
Singapore and the world. wood materials donated by local enterprises.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 47 ---

47
EMBARK
Wellness Festival
Re-Route: Little India Singapore 2022
STB launched the inaugural Wellness Festival
Singapore – together with Enterprise Singapore,
Health Promotion Board, National Arts
Council, Sentosa Development Corporation
and Sport Singapore – to promote holistic
wellbeing and make wellness experiences more
accessible.
The festival covered three areas of wellness:
fitness, emotional and mental, and lifestyle. It
showcased more than 130 programmes from
over 80 organisations. At the heart of the festival
was STB’s Wellness Sensorium at Gardens by
Re-Route: Little India, a first-of-its-kind
the Bay, a multi-sensory experience including
placemaking event, was held in Little India
stone-stacking, light and sound bath as well as
during Singapore Design Week and attracted
cycling with interactive lights and music.
more than 22,000 visitors. Organised by Plus
Collaboratives LLP, the three-week event
demonstrated how design can be used as a
tool to connect with visitors and encourage
exploration of the precinct’s lesser-known
history and hidden gems.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 48 ---

48
EMBARK
Existing leisure events and experiences were
Chinatown Chinese New Year Celebrations
also rejuvenated with new programmes
and offerings.
The Chinatown Chinese New Year such as the opening ceremony at Kreta
Celebrations, organised by the Chinatown Ayer Square, street bazaar, weekend live
Festival Committee of Kreta Ayer Community performances and a countdown party on the
Club, ushered in the Year of the Rabbit with eve of Lunar New Year were well-received.
a wide range of exciting festivities. The annual
To make the event more sustainable, street
Chinese New Year-themed street light-up
lanterns from the light-up were put up for
greeted visitors with charming dioramas that
public adoption, under the ‘Adopt a Lantern’
stretched to Upper Cross Street for the first
initiative.
time. The resumption of physical programmes
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 49 ---

49
EMBARK
Enhanced Wings of Time Rejuvenation of Mandai
experience Wildlife Reserve
Photo Credit: Mount Faber Leisure Group Photo Credit: Mandai Wildlife Group
Wings of Time reopened with upgraded The Mandai Wildlife Group made
pyrotechnic effects that appeal to a broader, enhancements to its parks, including a brand
multi-generational audience. new, fully sheltered 1,000-seat amphitheatre
and refreshed Creatures of the Night storyline
at the Night Safari. The Singapore Zoo
launched a renewed Breakfast in the Wild
experience – a 90-minute dining experience
held at Ah Meng Terrace, while River Wonders
refreshed its Amazon River Quest ride with
more animals and new multi-species habitats
for visitors to spot well-camouflaged, elusive
wildlife amidst lush vegetation.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 50 ---

50
EMBARK
Singapore Garden ZoukOut Singapore 2022
Festival 2022
Photo Credit: National Parks Board Photo Credit: ZoukOut Official
Following a four-year hiatus, the Singapore ZoukOut Singapore returned to Siloso Beach
Garden Festival (SGF) returned in 2022 with new programmes that included fitness
and saw over 720,000 visitors. Highlights and wellness activities, and the introduction of
included competitions such as the Singapore an exclusive Club Sapphire ticket tier.
Gardeners’ Cup; Landscape Design Challenge;
and The Floral Fiesta: A Floral Creation
Challenge which catered to floral enthusiasts
and hobbyists. SGF 2022 also saw two floral
installations, six international show gardens
and floral streetscape pop-ups along Orchard
Road, enlivening the precinct.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 51 ---

51
EMBARK
Singapore’s dining scene also saw fresh and
Opening of
refreshed concepts, featuring cuisines from
Opening of Chifa!
all around the world. WAKUDA Singapore
At Resorts World Sentosa
at Marina Bay Sands
Chifa!, the first restaurant in Singapore to focus
on Peruvian-Chinese cuisine, opened its doors
at Resorts World Sentosa. It is helmed by
Peruvian native Chef Ruben Rodrigo Serrano
Cabrera.
Opening of Soi Social at
Resorts World Sentosa
In November 2022, Resorts World Sentosa
and Thai celebrity chef Ian Kittichai opened Soi
Social, an eatery that features contemporary
versions of popular classics from across Photo Credit: Marina Bay Sands
Thailand’s culinary regions.
Reopening of Ocean A collaboration between celebrity chef Tetsuya
Wakuda of two Michelin-starred Waku Ghin
Restaurant at Resorts
and 50 Eggs Hospitality Group, WAKUDA
World Sentosa Singapore presents a multi-faceted Japanese
dining experience.
The iconic underwater dining destination
Ocean Restaurant at Resorts World Sentosa
reopened with two Michelin-starred chef
Olivier Bellin at its helm, and it features a
refreshed Modern-European menu focused on
sustainable gastronomy.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 52 ---

52
EMBARK
The cruise industry fully reopened with
Memorandum of Full reopening of the
the easing of Safe Management Measures
(SMMs), and we inked a Memorandum of Understanding inked with cruise industry
Understanding with Disney Cruise Line.
Disney Cruise Line to bring
Cruise ships no longer require CruiseSafe
Separately, STB took over the economic
magical cruise vacations to audit certification, which was a mandatory
regulation of cruise terminal operators
certification for cruise ships intending to sail
with the amendment of the STB Act. Southeast Asia
out of Singapore during the COVID-19 period
to ensure on-board health and safety measures
meet strict global and national standards.
Vaccinated Differentiated SMMs were also
lifted, and passengers could now board cruise
ships calling in Singapore regardless of their
vaccination status.
Amendment of the STB Act
Photo Credit: Disney Cruise Line
Disney Cruise Line and STB announced a The STB Act was amended in order for STB to
collaboration to homeport a brand-new Disney take on the economic regulator role for cruise
cruise ship exclusively in Singapore for five years terminals in the areas of service standards,
beginning in 2025. pricing of cruise port services and facilities, and
the allocation of berths.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 53 ---

53
EXCITE GLOBAL MARKETING AND PARTNERSHIPS
To inspire travel and increase mindshare
Miracle Coffee Pop-Up Café
of Destination Singapore, we continue
to showcase the vibrancy of Singapore’s at ArtScience Museum Celebrity partnerships
culture and diversity of our tourism
offerings by embarking on a series of
creative marketing campaigns and cross-
sector partnerships.
Photo Credit: Marina Bay Sands Photo Credit: Photo Credit:
Universal Music Singapore Warner Music Singapore
Marina Bay Sands launched artiste JJ Lin’s
Miracle Coffee’s first-ever pop-up in Singapore STB partnered with celebrity mega-influencers
at the ArtScience Museum’s Rain Oculus – Charlie Puth, Billie Eilish and Jackson Wang
a prelude to the artisanal coffee concept’s under the SingapoReimagine campaign to tell
flagship café due to open in late 2023. the Singapore story through the eyes of these
celebrities. These activations leveraged their
social following and coupled with STB’s owned
channels, reached over 346 million people
worldwide.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 54 ---

54
EXCITE
Social-first content SingapoReimagine
partnership with Partnership with International Recovery
NBCUniversal Warner Bros. Discovery campaign
In line with Singapore’s full reopening in 2022,
the SingapoReimagine (SRI) International
Recovery campaign was rolled out across 18
markets to recapture mindshare and drive
visitorship. This was done through a series
of extensive global and in-market activations.
Additional amplification was achieved through
engaging celebrity influencers. The campaign
film has reached over 300 million audiences
globally, with a positive uplift in destination
STB launched a social-first content partnership STB inked a three-year partnership in October recall ranging from +3% to +18%. STB will
with NBCUniversal, working with global 2022 with global media and entertainment continue to intensify global marketing activities
content creator Uptin Saiidi to not only pull company, Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) and partnerships to reach more audiences and
crowd-sourced recommendations from his to collaborate on entertainment and lifestyle drive visitorship in 2023.
followers on what to do in Singapore, but to content as well as marketing that spotlights
To spur innovative destination marketing by
also challenge the stereotypical perception Singapore. The partnership kickstarted with
industry stakeholders, the SingaporeReimagine
of Singapore being an expensive, built-up and HBO Asia Originals production Food Affair with
Marketing Programme (SMP) was also launched
stressful city. Over 44.1 million people saw the Mark Wiens which profiles Singapore’s diverse
in September 2022 and a total of 10 winning
videos on Uptin and NBCU Catalyst’s channels. gastronomic scene and has since premiered
ideas were awarded.
in November 2022 on HBO platforms across
Asia and America.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 55 ---

55
EXCITE
AMERICAS
Promoting Singapore’s PCMA Convening
SingapoReunions Gastronomy Leaders 2023
With American travellers eager to see their
loved ones after two years of separation, STB
launched the SingapoReunions campaign, from
Jul 2022 to Mar 2023, with 14 partner hotels,
to encourage business and leisure travellers
to reconnect in Singapore through exclusively
curated hotel packages. The campaign drove
over 1,800 guest bookings and was covered
positively by many top-tier publications,
including Conde Nast Traveler and the To promote Singapore’s innovative F&B scene In a bid to reach out to the US and global MICE
New York Times, achieving over 326 million to a culturally curious US audience, STB community, STB engaged over 3,300 attendees
impressions. organised the Singapore Food Festival in major at the Professional Convention Management
gateway cities, including an inaugural edition in Association’s (PCMA) flagship conference
Houston. STB also collaborated with IRVINS Convening Leaders 2023, showcasing Singapore
on a nationwide Golden Egg Hunt to win trips as a preferred and sustainable business events
to Singapore and partnered influential media destination. This was part of STB’s long-term
like The Infatuation and Los Angeles Times strategic partnership with PCMA – one of
through food festivals and private dinners. the world’s largest communities of business
These efforts were covered in articles on The events strategists, with over 7,000 senior-level
New York Times, Eater and more, garnering members and 17 global chapters, including an
over 600 million impressions. Asia Pacific headquarter in Singapore.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 56 ---

56
EXCITE
EUROPE
Collaboration Broadcast programmes Collaboration with
with Yoom Paris on Singapore Honest Burgers
To drive awareness of Singapore as a top holiday STB collaborated with Honest Burgers in
destination, STB supported the featuring of London for a special SG-inspired Cereal
Singapore on three popular programmes Chicken Burger and limited-edition beer by
across French and Italian channels – Echappees Northern Monk Brewery x Off Day Brewing
Belles, Gamberro Rosso and ARTE Invitation Co. This campaign achieved a reach of 7.9
Au Voyage. The programmes covered a variety million and an IMV of S$2.6 million.
of content that appeals to Europeans, such as
Singapore’s multi-ethnic culture, diversity of
food and sustainability offerings, and achieved
a combined reach of 4.3 million viewers and an
IMV of S$1.35 million.
STB embarked on a food collaboration
with Yoom Paris, a hip and upscale dim sum
restaurant, to produce a Singapore-inspired Influencer partnerships
menu. Jointly developed with Singaporean chefs
Tapping on their large international following,
Janice Wong and Justin Quek, the menu, which
STB also collaborated with The Body Coach
included laksa xiao long bao, chilli crab bao and
Joe Wicks and tennis star Emma Raducanu to
chocolate rice rolls, offered a taste of Singapore
promote Singapore as a stay-over destination
in Paris. The partnership was supported by a
on the way to Australasia, focusing on
marcom campaign that achieved a combined
Singapore’s foodie culture and lifestyle and
reach of 19.7 million and an International Media
wellness offerings.
Value (IMV) of S$185,000.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 57 ---

57
EXCITE
GREATER CHINA
Multi-faceted collaboration MICE Conference Leisure Trade Conference
with Jackson Wang
To continue building a strong pipeline of MICE As part of efforts to support the travel trade
visitors, STB conducted its fourth China MICE in Singapore to restore sales channels and
Conference in August 2022. business post-pandemic, STB organised its first-
ever Leisure Travel Conference in Chengdu in
In view of multiple COVID-19 outbreaks and
March 2023.
travel restrictions imposed by authorities in
STB partnered with celebrity Jackson Wang
China in 2022, STB redesigned the programme This event brought together 130 in-market
and his labels (RYCE, TEAM WANG records
into a hybrid format, with the main Speakers’ travel agents from across China, 60 Singapore
and TEAM WANG design) on fashion, music,
Session physically held in Beijing, three satellite tourism industry stakeholders and key
and destination content, to showcase local
events in Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chengdu, travel media for a three-day conference.
talents and the diverse off-the-beaten track
and “live” connection between the four cities It featured product updates on Singapore,
experiences in Singapore. This was done
and Singapore. Concurrent offline trade business matching, panel sessions and break-
through a “Human Remix” showcase featuring
engagements and a two-day online business out activities to help stakeholders from both
local beatboxer Dharni in Marquee, a special
mart were also held to maintain and expand countries interact and establish new contacts
appearance at MBS’ first-ever Infinity Pool
networks for China and Singapore stakeholders. after a three-year hiatus. Live-streaming
party “Christmas in the Skies”, as well as a
The four events saw participation from over and online business matching options were
series of destination vlogs showcasing unique
30 Singapore stakeholders and more than 100 provided for stakeholders who were unable
experiences.
trade partners across China. to attend in person, and a WeChat group was
The campaign achieved over 200 million views formed, connecting all the attendees to ensure
on STB’s social channels in China, registering continued interaction beyond the event.
over 40% growth in followers.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 58 ---

58
EXCITE
INDIA, MIDDLE EAST AND SOUTH ASIA
Enjoy Your Family Times Dreams from the
Now in Singapore Futures Art Installation Singapore Edit Festival
STB led a market recovery campaign “Enjoy A collaboration between STB and Little
Your Family Times Now in Singapore”, which Black Book (LBB), the Singapore Edit Festival
offered half-off deals for children from 21 showcased a collection of over 30 unique
experience providers, Pelago and Singapore lifestyle products that were co-created by
Airlines (SIA). Over 10,500 packages and 1,500 designers based in Singapore and India, and
experiences were sold, and SIA exceeded its exclusively presented on LBB’s online portal.
sales target by 74%. The festival achieved 2.3 million online page
views and a reach of 1.9 million.
STB partnered with St+Art India Foundation
for the SingapoReimagine launch of “Dreams
from the Futures”, an immersive art installation
featuring Indian and Singaporean artists and
showcasing the countries’ cultural elements.
The installation drew a footfall of 50,000 in
Chennai and won “Most Engaging Mobile
Creative” at The Maddies Awards, an awards
platform which seeks to recognise effective
mobile marketing strategies in India.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 59 ---

59
EXCITE
NORTH ASIA
SingapoReimagine in Korea Collaboration with Ultraman
Photo Credit: The Pinkfong Company
Launched in May 2022, the SingapoReimagine
campaign in Korea was helmed by three
milestone projects that lasted six months each. STB launched SingapoReimagine, in partnership
with Ultraman, at the first hybrid media event
Pinkfong, Baby Shark and Merli ‘released’ two
after the pandemic in Apr 2022. The event
music videos set in Singapore – one in English
obtained a total International Media Value
and another in Korean, which received 1.1
(IMV) of S$681,700, with 153 pieces of coverage
million and 37,000 YouTube views respectively
while an SingapoReimagine x Ultraman video
within 24 hours. Korea’s top virtual influencer
generated 6.2 million impressions and 2.6
Rozy introduced her 150,000 followers to
million views. STB also collaborated with
Singapore’s key cultural and architectural
Singapore Airlines Japan to run a series of
landmarks while production company Studio
tactical promotions featuring Ultraman.
Dragon shot the hit K-drama Little Women
at iconic spots on the island, drawing a media
value of S$18 million and ranking first in Korea.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 60 ---

60
EXCITE
OCEANIA
Gran Prix Singapore Style
In a clever use of wordplay, our “Gran Prix
Singapore Style” campaign featured three
Singapore grandmothers (“grans”) partnering
Australian comedic trio Swag on the Beat to
highlight unique Singapore experiences via
TikTok videos.
A TikTok #stitchchallenge competition
offered Australians the chance to win a trip to
Singapore for the 2022 Singapore Grand Prix.
The videos achieved 10 million views and grew
VisitSingapore’s TikTok account by 39,000
followers.
For additional buzz, STB partnered with
Fortress Melbourne, Southern Hemisphere’s
biggest e-sports and games entertainment
venue, to organise a competition where 6,000
visitors competed to set the fastest lap time
around the virtual Marina Bay Street Circuit.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 61 ---

61
EXCITE
SOUTHEAST ASIA
Singapore Food Festival at Partnership with Endeus.TV
Passport to Feast The Grid Food Hall for “Pesta Rasa”
STB Indonesia partnered popular Indonesian
culinary-focused media Endeus.TV to launch a
SingapoReimagine-themed consumer event at
STB Malaysia launched “Passport to Feast”, a STB Philippines took over a stall at The
the annual Pesta Rasa food festival from 19 to
campaign to highlight Singapore’s vibrant and Grid food hall in Manila for the whole of
21 August 2022.
reimagined food scene and to drive bookings September 2022 and invited a roster of
to Singapore. In the campaign’s first phase, Singapore establishments, including Keng Eng
Plant-based butcher Love Handle, Kway Guan
nine Singaporean chefs and mixologists were Kee, Coconut Club, Blue Smoke, New Ubin,
Huat Popiah, the Original Vadai and Toast Box
featured at guest shifts at popular restaurants and Elephant Room, to serve their dishes and
showcased their delectable dishes while the
and bars across the Klang Valley region. drinks. The activation drew long queues and
SNAP Singapore interactive photo booth kept
sold out daily. Together with other Singapore
attendees engaged by capturing fun moments.
In the second phase, 12 Singapore talents were
Food Festival activations, an International Media
featured in a takeover of Tiffin at the Yard, an
Value (IMV) of S$653,000 was generated. The food festival was attended by 11,700
upscale food court and events space located in
visitors.
a restored railway depot.
This campaign achieved about S$1.4 million in PR
value and 11.2 million social media impressions.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 62 ---

62
EXCITE
SOUTHEAST ASIA
Singapore Festival Powered Collaboration with Global
by OCBC NISP Muslim Artiste, Maher Zain
Riding on the recovery of outbound travel STB Indonesia spearheaded a collaboration
from Indonesia, the first-ever travel fair with Maher Zain, an international singer,
“Singapore Festival Powered by OCBC NISP” songwriter, and music producer, to promote
was organised in Surabaya. Airline partners Singapore as a Muslim-friendly destination
(Singapore Airlines, Garuda, Jetstar and Scoot) through a three-part travel videos series.
provided special fares for the event, with
Singapore’s Suria TV personality, Shahril Wahid,
10 Singapore tourism stakeholders (Changi
played host to Maher Zain as he explored
Airport Group, ION Orchard, Irvins, Mandai
Singapore’s neighbourhoods and hidden gems.
Wildlife Reserve, Sentosa, Trickeye Museum,
Resorts World Sentosa, Resorts World The videos achieved four million views.
Cruises and Royal Caribbean International)
offering special bundle deals for the event.
The event generated S$155,000 in sales and a
media value of S$434,483.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 63 ---

63
Annual Report 2022/2023
ETAROPROC
ECNANREVOG
STB continues to uphold high standards of
corporate governance, ensuring corporate
transparency and the people’s trust in us.

--- PAGE 64 ---

64
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD COMPOSITION
OF THE BOARD AND APPOINTMENT
The Board oversees and monitors There were 12 Directors on the The size and composition of the The Board is given the mandate to
STB’s organisational performance Board from 1 April 2022 to 31 Board are guided by the clauses act independently and to exercise
and achievement of strategic goals March 2023 with the following stated in the STB Act. The objective judgment on the STB’s
and objectives. It assumes the movements: desired outcome is the provision corporate affairs. This is to
responsibility of reviewing and of a conducive environment ensure that checks and balances
• the retirement of Mr Saiful
approving corporate strategies, for effective discussions and are instituted. Apart from Mr
Saroni on 31 December 2022;
budgets and financial plans. decision-making. The process for Keith Tan and Ms Thien Kwee
• the appointment of Mr Olivier
the appointment of Directors Eng, the other Directors on the
Lim as Deputy Chairman and
to the Board is kept formal and Board are independent Directors.
Mr Rajeev Menon on 1 January
transparent as this is critical to the A Director’s independence is re-
2023;
role that corporate governance assessed at the point of each re-
• and the reappointment of Ms plays. A review of the Directors’ appointment.
Audrey Kuah and Mrs Wong membership on the Board is done
Ai Ai from 1 January 2023. when his or her official term of
appointment ends.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 65 ---

65
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
CONDUCT OF Table 1: Directors’ Attendance at Board Meetings in FY2022
BOARD AFFAIRS (1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023)
Scheduled Board Meetings Board Workshop1
The Board approves financial Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended
transactions above a certain Mr Chaly Mah 5 5 1 1
financial limit. A regular review
Mr Olivier Lim3 5 1 1 0
of the financial authorisation and
Mr Keith Tan 5 5 1 1
approval limits is performed.
Mr Saiful Saroni2 5 4 1 1
During each financial year,
the Directors are requested Ms Audrey Kuah 5 4 1 0
to complete an annual Board Mr Lim Eng Hwee 5 4 1 0
Evaluation Questionnaire that
Mr Aaron Maniam 5 4 1 1
allows the STB to assess the
Ms Thien Kwee Eng 5 3 1 1
overall administration of Board
Mr Ravi Thakran 5 5 1 0
matters and engagements with
the Board. Under the year in Mrs Wong Ai Ai 5 4 1 1
review, there were a total of Mr Arthur Lang 5 4 1 0
five scheduled Board meetings
Ms Soh Siew Choo 5 4 1 0
and a half-day Board Workshop
Mr Rajeev Menon3 5 1 1 0
to discuss key strategic issues.
A record of the Directors’
1 Typically held in November.
attendance at Board meetings
2 Mr Saiful Saroni retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2022 and was scheduled for four Board Meetings.
during the financial year, which 3 Mr Olivier Lim and Mr Rajeev Menon were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2023 and were both scheduled for one Board Meeting.
ended on 31 March 2023, is set
out in Table 1.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 66 ---

66
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Directors are given access to the Table 2: Directors’ Board Committee memberships and Attendance at Board
STB’s records and information, Committee Meetings in FY2022 (1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023)
senior management, or any other
staff of the organisation as deemed ARC FIC Governance HRMC
necessary for them to effectively
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
discharge their responsibilities
Mr Chaly Mah - - - - 1 1 2 2
and to deliberate meaningfully
Mr Olivier Lim1 - - - - 1 0
on issues discussed at Board
meetings. Mr Keith Tan - 3 3 1 1 2 2
Mr Saiful Saroni2 3 2 - - - - - -
The following Board Committees
assist the Board in executing its Ms Audrey Kuah 3 2 - - - - - -
duties: Mr Lim Eng Hwee 3 3 - - - - - -
• Audit and Risk Committee
Mr Aaron Maniam3 - - - - 1 1 2 1
(ARC)
Ms Thien Kwee Eng - - 3 3 - - - -
• Finance and Investment
Committee (FIC) Mr Ravi Thakran - - 3 3 - - - -
• Governance Committee
Mrs Wong Ai Ai - - 3 2 - - - -
• Human Resource Management
Mr Arthur Lang 3 2 - - - - - -
Committee (HRMC)
Ms Soh Siew Choo - - - - - - 2 1
A record of each Director’s Board
Mr Rajeev Menon4 3 1 - - - - - -
Committee memberships and
attendance at Board Committee
meetings during the financial year,
which ended on 31 March 2023, is 1 Mr Olivier Lim was appointed to the Governance Committee with effect from 1 January 2023 and was not scheduled for any Governance Committee meeting.
2 Mr Saiful Saroni retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2022 and was scheduled for two ARC meetings.
set out in Table 2. 3 Mr Aaron Maniam ceased double-hatting on Governance Committee and HRMC and retired from the Governance Committee with effect from 31 December 2022.
He was scheduled for one Governance Committee meeting and two HRMC meetings.
4 Mr Rajeev Menon was appointed to the ARC with effect from 1 January 2023 and was scheduled for one ARC meeting.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 67 ---

67
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
AUDIT AND
INTERNAL CONTROLS EXTERNAL AUDIT
RISK COMMITTEE
The Audit and Risk Committee The ARC has explicit authority The Board ensures that As part of the audit of the annual
(ARC) comprises four independent to investigate any matter within Management maintains a sound financial statements, the external
and non-executive Directors. its terms of reference; it also has system of internal controls auditors conduct a review
At least two members of the ARC full access to, and cooperation to safeguard the interests of of the significant internal controls.
have the requisite accounting or of, Management. It has direct stakeholders and the assets of Any material non-compliance and/
related financial management access to the Internal Audit team the STB. The ARC ensures that or internal control weaknesses,
expertise to discharge their and external auditors with full a review of the effectiveness of together with the external
responsibilities and duties. discretion to invite any Board the STB’s internal controls – auditors’ recommendations, are
Member or Management staff to including financial, operational addressed and made known
The responsibilities of the ARC
attend its meetings. and compliance controls, and to the ARC. To maintain the
include ensuring the adequacy of
risk management – takes place independence of the external
internal controls and reviewing In addition, the ARC also met
annually through the various audits auditors, the ARC has reviewed
audit plans, audit reports and with the external auditors and
performed internally and through the nature and extent of non-
audited STB Annual Financial staff of Internal Audit without the
related reports issued to the ARC. audit services provided by the
Statements. Besides overseeing presence of Management, during
For certain projects or areas external auditors during the
accountability and audit, the ARC the financial year. To discharge its
where independent expertise year and the fees paid for such
also assists the Board by providing function and duties, reasonable
is required in connection with services. The ARC is satisfied that
oversight of the STB’s Enterprise resources are made available to
the review of controls, external the independence of the external
Risk Management Framework the ARC.
professionals and service providers auditors has not been impaired by
through regular risk management
are appointed accordingly. the provision of those services.
reports from Management.
The external auditors have also
provided confirmation of its
independence to the ARC.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 68 ---

68
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCE AND
WHISTLEBLOWING INVESTMENT
INTERNAL AUDIT POLICY COMMITTEE
The Internal Audit reports The STB has a whistleblowing The Finance and Investment It approves the STB’s investment
functionally to the Chairman of policy to allow employees, Committee (FIC) comprises four policy, objectives, guidelines,
the ARC and administratively to stakeholders and the general Directors. Its responsibilities strategies and appointment of
the Chief Executive. As part of public to report concerns that are broadly categorised into external fund manager(s) in
its auditing, the Internal Audit is have significant impact on the Finance and Fund Management. respect of surplus funds available
guided by the current International Board and its operations, locally It endorses STB’s work plans for financial investments and
Professional Practices Framework and overseas. The policy aims and budget before submission reviews these matters at least
issued by the Institute of Internal to encourage the reporting of to the Board for approval. The once a year. The Committee also
Auditors. The adequacy of funding such matters in good faith, with Committee approves tenders as ensures that financial investments
and staffing of the Internal Audit the confidence that persons part of tender committee, and are conducted in compliance
and its appropriate standing within making such reports will be expenditures in accordance to the with statutory legislation and
the STB is ensured by the ARC. treated fairly and, to the fullest STB’s Financial Regulations. It also government directives.
extent possible, protected from approves any proposed changes
The Internal Audit adopts risk-
reprisals. All whistleblowing to the STB’s Financial Regulations.
based auditing as its key audit
reports, including the identity of
assurance practice. It provides
the whistleblower will be treated
regional offices, process owners
with confidentiality. Reports can
and policymakers of the STB,
be lodged directly to the Head
with reasonable assurance on
of STB Internal Audit via email
the effectiveness of control
at ethics@stb.gov.sg.
and governance processes in
the management of risks and
accomplishment of objectives.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 69 ---

69
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
HUMAN RESOURCE
GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
The Governance Committee The Human Resource Management
comprises three Directors, Committee (HRMC) comprises four
including the Chairman of Directors, including the Chairman of
the Board. The Committee’s the Board. Its responsibilities include
main focus is to ensure the providing guidance on leadership
effectiveness of the Board and development and talent management
Board Committees. To ensure matters; reviewing compensation
that the Board has the appropriate policies and structures to ensure
balance of skills and experience competitiveness; endorsing the
to deal with the strategic issues promotion of officers to or within
and challenges facing the STB, the Salary Grade 15 and above (i.e. the
Governance Committee reviews equivalent of Superscale Grades in
the appointments and renewals the Civil Service); and the assessment
of Directors, and provides of the STB’s performance report to
recommendations where possible. the Board Members.
It also assumes the responsibility
for conducting an annual evaluation
of the Board’s effectiveness.
Annual Report 2022/2023

--- PAGE 70 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023

--- PAGE 71 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C O N T E N T S
PAGE
Statement by Singapore Tourism Board 1
Independent auditor’s report 2 - 5
Statement of financial position 6
Statement of comprehensive income 7
Statement of changes in equity 8
Statement of cash flows 9
Notes to financial statements 10 - 36

--- PAGE 73 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”) which comprise the
statement of financial position as at 31 March 2023, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement
of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 6 to 36.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Board are properly drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018 (“PSG Act”), the Singapore Tourism Board
Act 1963 (“STB Act”) and Statutory Board Financial Reporting Standards (“SB-FRS”) so as to present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the Board as at 31 March 2023 and the financial performance,
changes in equity and cash flows of the Board for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (“SSAs”). Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Board in accordance with the Accounting and
Corporate Regulatory Authority Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and
Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Information Other than Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Statement by
Singapore Tourism Board set out on page 1, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
2

--- PAGE 74 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial
Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and SB-FRS, and for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
A statutory board is constituted based on its constitutional act and its dissolution requires Parliament’s
approval.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Board’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless there is intention to wind up the Board or for the Board to cease
operations.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Board’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Board’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Board’s ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Board to cease to continue as a
going concern.
3

--- PAGE 75 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
that we identify during our audit.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Opinion
In our opinion:
(a) the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets by the
Board during the year are, in all material respects, in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act,
STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the
Board; and
(b) proper accounting and other records have been kept, including records of all assets of the Board
whether purchased, donated or otherwise.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with SSAs. Our responsibilities under those standards are further
described in theAuditor’s Responsibilities for the Compliance Audit section of our report. We are independent
of the Board in accordance with the ACRA Code together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on management’s compliance.
Responsibilities of Management for Compliance with Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Management is responsible for ensuring that the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the
acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the
requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the Board. This responsibility
includes monitoring related compliance requirements relevant to the Board, and implementing internal
controls as management determines are necessary to enable compliance with the requirements.
4

--- PAGE 76 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Compliance Audit
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s compliance based on our audit of the financial
statements. We planned and performed the compliance audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance
with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to
moneys of or managed by the Board.
Our compliance audit includes obtaining an understanding of the internal control relevant to the receipts,
expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets; and assessing the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements from non-compliance, if any, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Board’s internal control. Because of the inherent limitations
in any internal control system, non-compliances may nevertheless occur and not be detected.
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
22 August 2023
5

--- PAGE 77 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 March 2023
Note 2023 2022
$’000 $’000
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 6 198,159 188,017
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 7 29,237 63,094
Finance lease receivable 8 874 821
Financial assets under fund management 9 262,582 230,306
Total current assets 490,852 482,238
Non-current assets
Prepayments 7 74 60
Finance lease receivable 8 14,665 15,539
Property, plant and equipment 10 258,847 264,791
Right-of-use assets 11 186,067 210,901
Intangible assets 12 9,289 7,067
Other investments 13 2,076 2,076
Other assets 150 150
Total non-current assets 471,168 500,584
Total assets 962,020 982,822
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 100,848 109,421
Advances and deposits received 15 13,253 9,726
Lease liabilities 17 9,871 14,191
Total current liabilities 123,972 133,338
Non-current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 25 37
Deferred capital grants 16 174,028 183,063
Lease liabilities 17 5,349 13,472
Total non-current liabilities 179,402 196,572
Equity
Share capital 18 582,333 575,691
Accumulated surplus 76,237 77,145
Revaluation reserve 76 76
Total equity 658,646 652,912
Total liabilities and equity 962,020 982,822
Net assets/(liabilities) of Trust and Agency Funds 19 33,762 6,149
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
6

--- PAGE 78 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Year ended 31 March 2023
Note 2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Operating income 20 41,694 14,956
Less: operating expenses
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 (21,012) (21,266)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 (28,498) (29,979)
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 (3,664) (8,364)
Employee benefit expenses 21 (97,973) (94,869)
Other operating expenses (191,198) (191,427)
(342,345) (345,905)
Non-operating income and expenses
Net Investment (loss) 22 (16,379) (10,172)
Other income 23 2,289 441
Other expenses 24 (1,137) (1,590)
(15,227) (11,321)
Operating loss before Government grants (315,878) (342,270)
Government grants
Operating grants 297,287 274,793
Amortisation of deferred capital grants 16 17,683 16,582
314,970 291,375
Net deficit before contribution to
Consolidated Fund (908) (50,895)
Contribution to Consolidated Fund 25 - -
Deficit for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year (908) (50,895)
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
7

--- PAGE 79 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 31 March 2023
Share Accumulated Revaluation
capital surplus reserve Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance as at 1 April 2021 571,787 128,040 76 699,903
Equity injections (Note 18) 3,904 - - 3,904
Deficit for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year - (50,895) - (50,895)
Balance as at 31 March 2022 575,691 77,145 76 652,912
Equity injections (Note 18) 6,642 - - 6,642
Deficit for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year - (908) - (908)
Balance as at 31 March 2023 582,333 76,237 76 658,646
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
8

--- PAGE 80 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Year ended 31 March 2023
Note 2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Operating activities
Deficit for the year (908) (50,895)
Adjustments for:
Operating grants (297,287) (274,793)
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 16 (17,683) (16,582)
Allowance for credit losses 24 19 17
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 21,012 21,266
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 29,997 31,490
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 3,664 8,364
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 23 (145) -
Loss/(Gain)on disposal of right-of-use assets 24 22 (30)
Interest income (6,152) (6,905)
Loss on financial assets under fund management 22 19,842 16,412
Finance lease income (1,554) (1,068)
Lease interest expense 1,096 1,573
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (248,077) (271,151)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 23,908 (32,542)
Accruals and other payables (8,585) 30,587
Advances and deposits received 3,527 (1,590)
Cash used in operations (229,227) (274,696)
Interest received 410 512
Net cash used in operating activities (228,817) (274,184)
Investing activities
Interest received 5,562 7,562
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10 (15,105) (14,394)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (5,886) (5,233)
Proceeds from disposal of right-of-use
assets and property, plant and equipment 441 218
Repayment of finance lease receivables 821 772
Proceeds from disposal/(Purchase) of financial assets
under fund management (52,118) 19,226
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (66,285) 8,151
Financing activities
Interest paid (1,096) (1,573)
Operating grants received 304,810 261,333
Capital grants received 16 12,775 11,377
Equity injection 18 6,642 3,904
Repayment of lease liabilities (17,887) (16,095)
Net cash from financing activities 305,244 258,946
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10,142 (7,087)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6 188,017 195,104
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6 198,159 188,017
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
9

--- PAGE 81 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
1 GENERAL
The Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”), a Singapore statutory board under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry (“MTI”), is established in the Republic of Singapore under the Singapore Tourism Board
Act 1963 (the “Act”) with its registered office and principal place of operations at Tourism Court,
1 Orchard Spring Lane, Singapore 247729.
The primary functions and duties of the Board are:
(i) To develop and promote Singapore as a travel and tourist destination;
(ii) To advise the Government on matters relating to travel and tourism;
(iii) To enhance the travel and tourism sector’s contribution to the Singapore economy; and
(iv) To exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of such tourism enterprises as the Board
may determine.
These financial statements are presented in Singapore dollar, which is the Board’s functional currency.
All values presented are rounded to the nearest thousand (“$’000”), unless indicated otherwise.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
The financial statements of the Board for the year ended 31 March 2023 were authorised for issue by
the Board of Directors on 22 August 2023.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost basis, except as disclosed
in the accounting policies below, and are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of PSG Act,
STB Act and SB-FRS, including Interpretations of SB-FRS (“INT SB-FRS”) and SB-FRS Guidance Notes.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for services.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price
is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of
an asset or a liability, the Board takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability which
market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement
date.
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in the financial statements is determined
on such a basis, except for leasing transactions that are within the scope of SB-FRS 116 Leases, and
measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as value in use in
SB-FRS 36 Impairment of Assets.
2.2 Adoption of new and revised standards
On 1 April 2022, the Board adopted all the new and revised SB-FRSs, INT SB-FRS and SB-FRS
Guidance Notes that are effective from that date and relevant to its operations. The adoption of these
standards does not result in changes to the Board’s accounting policies and has no material effect on
the amounts reported for the current or prior year.
10

--- PAGE 82 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
2.3 Standards issued but not yet effective
Management has assessed and is of the view that the adoption of the new/revised SB-FRSs,
INT SB-FRSs and amendments to SB-FRS that are issued as at the date of authorisation of these
financial statements but effective only in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial
statements in the period of their initial adoption.
2.4 Financial instruments
Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised on the statement of financial position when, and only when the Board
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial assets are initially measured
at fair value. All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either
amortised cost or fair value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
(i) Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at amortised
cost:
• The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
• The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are derecognised or impaired,
and through the amortisation process.
(ii) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”):
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Equity instruments designated as at FVTOCI
The Board has made an irrevocable election to designate its investment in unquoted equity
shares that are not held for trading as at FVTOCI on initial application of SB-FRS 109
(see Note 13). The Board is of the view that the cost of the unquoted equity shares represents
the fair value of the investment.
11

--- PAGE 83 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
Investment in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction
costs. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes
in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments
revaluation reserve. The cumulative gain or loss will not be reclassified to profit or loss on
disposal of the equity investments, instead, they will be transferred to accumulated surplus.
Dividends on these investments in equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the
Board’s right to receive the dividends is established, unless the dividends clearly represent a
recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
By default, all other financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or
loss (“FVTPL”).
Despite the aforegoing, the Board may make the following irrevocable election/designation at
initial recognition of a financial asset:
• the Board may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity
investment in other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met; and
• the Board may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or
FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value as at each reporting date, with any fair
value gains or losses recognised in profit or loss to the extent they are not part of a designated
hedging relationship. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or
interest earned on the financial assets and is included in the “investment income” (Note 22).
Impairment of financial assets
The Board recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt instruments not
held at FVTPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Board expects to receive, discounted at an
approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows
from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit
exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss
allowance is recognised for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective
of timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
For debtors, the Board applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Board does
not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each
reporting date. The ECLs on these financial assets are estimated based on the Board’s historical credit
loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
environment which could affect debtors’ ability to pay.
12

--- PAGE 84 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
The Board considers a financial asset in default when internal or external information indicates that
the Board is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full. A financial asset is written
off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Board derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the
asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the asset to another party. On derecognition, any difference between the carrying amount
and the sum of proceeds received is recognised in the profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments issued by the Board are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a
financial liability and an equity instrument.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Board after
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Board are recognised at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
Pursuant to the Finance Circular Minute (“FCM”) No. 26/2008 on Capital Management Framework
(“CMF”), equity injection from the Singapore Government (the “Government”) is recorded as share
capital.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method
or at FVTPL. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised,
and through the amortisation process.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured
at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Board derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Board’s obligations are
discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial
liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable, including any non-cash assets transferred
or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
13

--- PAGE 85 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
2.5 Leases
The Board as lessee
The Board assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Board
recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease
term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets. For these leases, the Board recognises the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from
the leased assets are consumed.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be
readily determined, the Authority uses the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lessee.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise of:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives
The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on
the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made.
The Board remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related
right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase
option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments
using a revised discount rate;
• the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment
under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured by discounting
the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease payments change is
due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used); or
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease,
in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using
a revised discount rate.
The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability,
lease payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Right-of-use assets are calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their depreciable amounts
over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the underlying assets as follows:
Leasehold land - 3 to 99 years
Commercial units - 3 to 10 years
Residential units - 2 to 4 years
Office equipment - 2 to 6 years
Motor vehicles - 3 years
14

--- PAGE 86 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
The right-of-use assets are presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The Board applies SB-FRS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for
any identified impairment loss accordingly.
Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the
lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the
period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs and are included in the line
‘Other operating expenses’ in the statement of comprehensive income.
As a practical expedient, SB-FRS 116 permits a lessee not to separate non-lease components,
and instead account for any lease and associated non-lease components as a single arrangement.
The Board has not used this practical expedient. For a contract that contains a lease component and
one or more additional lease or non-lease components, the Board allocates the consideration in the
contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the lease component
and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components.
The Board as lessor
Leases for which the Board is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee,
the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When the Board is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two
separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease by reference to the
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant
lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the
carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the
Board’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Board’s net investment outstanding in respect of the
leases.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Measurement
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment initially recognised includes its purchase price
and any cost that is directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Board.
15

--- PAGE 87 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
Depreciation
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are available for use.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method to allocate their depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Buildings - 10 to 99 years
Building improvements - 4 to 7 years
Furniture, fittings and equipment - 2 to 10 years
Motor vehicles - 5 years
Electrical installation and air-conditioners - 3 to 7 years
Infrastructure - 4 to 30 years
The residual values, estimated useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at each financial
year-end, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. The effects of any revision of the residual values
and useful lives are included in income or expenditure when the changes arise.
Derecognition
On disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment, the difference between the
disposal proceed and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.
2.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation (where they have finite useful
lives) and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line
method on the following bases:
Computer software - 3 to 5 years
Intangible assets under development are not depreciated until they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and amortisation method of intangible assets are reviewed
at the end of each reporting period with the effect of any changes in estimates accounted for on a
prospective basis.
An item of intangible assets is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in
the profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Board reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial assets
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount
of an individual asset, the Board estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs.
16

--- PAGE 88 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit)
is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised immediately as income, unless the asset is valued at revalued amount, in which
case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
2.9 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Board has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
of a past event, it is probable that the Board will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the
present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle
the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
2.10 Trust and agency funds
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2.11 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Board will comply
with the conditions attaching to them and the grants will be received. Government grants whose
primary condition is that the Board should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire non-current assets
are recognised as deferred capital grant in the statement of financial position and transferred to income
or expenditure on a systematic and rational basis over the useful lives of the related assets.
Other government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with
the costs for which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants that
are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving
immediate financial support to the Board with no future related costs are recognised in income or
expenses in the period in which they become receivable.
17

--- PAGE 89 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
2.12 Income recognition
Income is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes
amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Events-related income
Events-related income is recognised over time when the Board satisfies a performance obligation by
transferring control of a service to the customer. The amount of income recognised is the amount of
the transaction price allocated to each satisfied performance obligation. Transaction price is the
amount of consideration in the contract to which the Board expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring the promised services.
Lease income
The Board’s policy for recognition of income from operating leases is described in Note 2.5 above.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised over time, on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
2.13 Defined contribution plans
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense when employees
have rendered the services entitling them to the contributions. Payments made to state-managed
retirement benefit schemes, such as the Singapore Central Provident Fund, are dealt with as payments
to defined contribution plans where the Board’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to those
arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
2.14 Employee leave entitlement
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is
made for the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to
the end of the reporting period.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances, and cash balances placed with the
Accountant-General’s Department (“AGD”) which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in
value.
18

--- PAGE 90 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
2.16 Foreign currency transactions and translation
In preparing the financial statements, transactions in currencies other than the Board’s functional
currency are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling
at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the application of the Board’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, management is
required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future
periods.
Management is of the opinion that there are no critical judgements or significant estimates that would
have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
4 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, FINANCIAL RISKS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Categories of financial instruments
The following table sets out the financial instruments as at the end of the reporting period:
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Financial assets
Financial assets at amortised cost:
Deposits and other receivables excluding prepayments 25,209 59,734
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 198,159 188,017
Finance lease receivables (Note 8) 15,539 16,360
238,907 264,111
Financial assets measured at FVTPL (Note 9) 262,582 230,306
Other investments (Note 13) 2,076 2,076
503,565 496,493
19

--- PAGE 91 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Accruals and other payables 109,589 114,652
Lease liabilities (Note 17) 15,220 27,663
124,809 142,315
(b) Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Board’s key financial risks include market risk (including interest rate risk, currency risk and
market price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
There has been no change to the Board’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in
which it manages and measures the risk. Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity
analysis indicated below.
The Board does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
(i) Foreign exchange risk management
The Board has exposure to foreign currency risk as a result of its externally managed
investments in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. Foreign currency
sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect any reasonable
possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates to have a significant impact on the
Board’s operations and cash flows.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
The Board’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to its deposits with AGD, and
investments in quoted equities and bonds, as disclosed in Notes 6 and 9 respectively.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect
any reasonable possible changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the
Board’s operations and cash flows.
20

--- PAGE 92 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
(iii) Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations
resulting in financial loss to the Board. In managing credit risk exposure, credit review and
approval processes as well as monitoring mechanisms are applied.
The Board’s major classes of financial assets are cash and deposits with AGD, cash and
bank balances, other receivables, and financial assets held at fair value through profit or
loss. The maximum exposure to credit risk for each class of financial assets is the carrying
amount of that class of financial instruments presented on the statement of financial
position.
(iv) Market price risk management
The Board is exposed to market risks arising from investments in quoted equities and
bonds, both of which are designated as fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), managed
by fund managers. The Board diversifies its portfolio in accordance with its investment
mandate to manage exposure to fluctuations in market prices.
Further details of these investments can be found in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Market price sensitivity
The sensitivity analyses have been determined based on the exposure to market price
risks at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of the FVTPL investments, if the underlying market prices had been
2% higher/lower, the deficit of the Board will decrease/increase by $5,252,000
(2022 : deficit of the Board will decrease/increase by $4,606,000).
(v) Liquidity risk management
The Board manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient funds to enable it to meet its
operational requirements.
The Board’s objective is to maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate
by management to finance the Board’s operations. The investment portfolio comprises
quoted equities and bonds (as disclosed under Note 9) with resale markets to ensure
portfolio liquidity.
The Board does not have any significant exposure to liquidity risk as at the end of each
reporting period.
21

--- PAGE 93 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
(vi) Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Board classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has
the following levels:
a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1);
b) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
(Level 2); and
c) input for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
Investments (as disclosed under Note 9) are measured based on Level 1 and 2 of the fair
value hierarchy. Unquoted equity shares (Note 13) are measured based on Level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the
year.
Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities
recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
(c) Capital risk management policies and objectives
The Board manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while
fulfilling its objective as a statutory board.
The Board is required to comply with the Capital Management Framework for Statutory Boards
detailed in Finance Circular Minute M26/2008, including the need to declare annual dividends to
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in return for the equity injection.
The capital structure of the Board consists of accumulated surplus and capital account.
The overall strategy of the Board remains unchanged from the previous financial year.
5 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(a) Transactions with Ministries and Government Agencies
For the purposes of these financial statements, related parties refer to Ministries, Organ of States
and other Statutory Boards. The transactions with Government-related entities (other than
Ministries, Organ of States, and other Statutory Boards), are not disclosed unless there are
circumstances to indicate that these transactions are of interest to the readers of the financial
statements.
Some of the Board’s transactions and arrangements are with related parties and the effect of
these on the basis determined between the parties is reflected in these financial statements.
The balances are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand unless otherwise stated.
22

--- PAGE 94 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
Other than as disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following significant transactions
took place between the Board and its related parties during the financial year:
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
MTI
Services and expenses paid to MTI 1,287 1,222
Services rendered to MTI (590,027) (634,156)
Other Ministries and Government Agencies
Purchases and services paid to other government agencies 37,009 29,125
Expenses made on behalf by other ministries 610 1,033
Expenses made on behalf by other government agencies 5,980 4,034
Reimbursements from other ministries (704) (544)
Services rendered to other government agencies (389) (32)
Reimbursements from other government agencies (4,467) (1,995)
(b) Board members and key management personnel remuneration
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Remuneration and other short-term benefits 3,187 2,792
Contributions to defined contribution plan 102 99
3,289 2,891
The above includes Board members’ allowance of $160,325 (2022 : $158,468).
6 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Cash and bank deposits (i) 198,159 188,017
(i) This includes cash and bank deposits placed with Accountant General’s Department (“AGD”)
under the Centralised Liquidity Management Scheme (“CLM”) under AGD Circular 4/2009. The
CLM Scheme includes placement of cash deposits with approved financial institutions. Deposits,
which are interest-bearing, are centrally managed by AGD and are available to the Board upon
request and earn interest at the average rate of 1.56% (2022 : 0.30%) per annum.
23

--- PAGE 95 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
7 DEPOSITS, PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Deposits 1,707 1,809
Prepayments 4,102 3,420
Other receivables:
- Operating grants 5,936 13,459
- Ministries and other government agencies 12,489 42,249
- Others 5,077 2,217
29,311 63,154
Net deposits, prepayments and other receivables 29,311 63,154
Less: Non-current prepayments (74) (60)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables presented as
current assets 29,237 63,094
No impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the receivables after taking into account the
historical default experience in which the debtors operate, together with the value of deposits.
There has been no significant change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made
during the current reporting period.
Movement in the allowance for credit losses:
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year - 13
Allowance recognised in profit or loss (Note 24) 19 17
Bad debts written-off (19) (30)
Balance at end of year - -
24

--- PAGE 96 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
8 FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLE
The Board entered into an agreement with a third party company incorporated in Singapore to lease
a parcel of land granted to the Board by the Singapore Land Authority for the purpose of a
tourism-related project. The average discount rate implicit in the lease is 6.4% (2022 : 6.4%)
per annum.
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Amount receivable under finance lease:
Year 1 1,825 1,825
Year 2 1,825 1,825
Year 3 1,825 1,825
Year 4 1,825 1,825
Year 5 1,825 1,825
Year 6 onwards 13,235 15,060
Gross investment in the lease 22,360 24,185
Less: Unearned finance income (6,821) (7,825)
Present value of minimum lease receivable 15,539 16,360
Net investment in the lease analysed as:
Recoverable within 12 months 874 821
Recoverable after 12 months 14,665 15,539
15,539 16,360
The following table presents the amounts included in profit or loss.
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Finance income on the net investment in finance lease 1,004 1,054
The Board’s finance lease arrangements do not include variable payments.
25

--- PAGE 97 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
9 FINANCIAL ASSETS UNDER FUND MANAGEMENT
The Board set up its own investment portfolio, managed by external fund managers in accordance
with the approved investment mandate. The investments consist of quoted equities and quoted bonds
with a total net asset value of $262,582,000 (2022 : $230,306,000). The valuation of investments is
based on the last market day of the financial year provided by the external fund managers and
custodian bank which have no significant unobservable inputs.
During the financial year, fair value loss (including foreign exchange movement), amounting to
$20,149,000 (2022 : $16,185,000) relating to financial assets under fund management was recorded.
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 262,582 230,306
Fair value hierarchy as at March 31, 2023
Level 1 262,582 230,306
262,582 230,306
26

--- PAGE 98 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Furniture, Electrical
Building fittings and Motor installation and Capital work-
Buildings improvements equipment vehicles air-conditioners Infrastructure in-progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2021 470,240 32,562 15,856 1,225 32,865 49,389 2,381 604,518
Additions 632 136 27 53 2,016 - 11,530 14,394
Reclassification 912 8 464 - 387 - (1,771) -
Disposals - (123) (74) - (414) - - (611)
At 31 March 2022 471,784 32,583 16,273 1,278 34,854 49,389 12,140 618,301
Additions 61 12,118 1,093 35 1,636 - 162 15,105
Reclassification - 4,157 721 - 7,262 - (12,140) -
Disposals - (104) (790) (564) (59) - - (1,517)
At 31 March 2023 471,845 48,754 17,297 749 43,693 49,389 162 631,889
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2021 212,447 28,918 14,840 1,123 28,664 46,863 - 332,855
Depreciation 16,016 1,774 595 37 1,426 1,418 - 21,266
Disposals - (123) (74) - (414) - - (611)
At 31 March 2022 227,465 30,809 15,361 1,160 29,956 48,759 - 353,510
Depreciation 16,201 1,698 898 42 2,039 134 - 21,012
Disposals - (99) (759) (564) (58) - - (1,480)
At 31 March 2023 243,666 32,408 15,500 638 31,937 48,893 - 373,042
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2023 228,179 16,346 1,797 111 11,755 496 162 258,847
At 31 March 2022 244,319 1,774 912 118 4,898 630 12,140 264,791
27

--- PAGE 99 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold Commercial Residential Office Motor
land units units equipment vehicles Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2021 233,886 76,729 3,326 178 19 314,138
Additions - 4,310 1,333 14 8 5,665
Disposals (1,739) (1,535) (1,808) (8) - (5,090)
At 31 March 2022 232,147 79,504 2,851 184 27 314,713
Additions 19 3,715 1,615 - 95 5,444
Disposals - (1,946) (1,525) (120) (27) (3,618)
At 31 March 2023 232,166 81,273 2,941 64 95 316,539
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2021 40,865 34,566 1,700 81 12 77,224
Depreciation 13,787 16,132 1,511 51 9 31,490
Disposals (1,739) (1,532) (1,624) (7) - (4,902)
At 31 March 2022 52,913 49,166 1,587 125 21 103,812
Depreciation 12,395 16,028 1,499 36 38 29,997
Disposals - (1,821) (1,369) (120) (27) (3,337)
At 31 March 2023 65,308 63,374 1,717 41 32 130,472
Carrying amount:
As at 31 March 2023 166,858 17,899 1,224 23 63 186,067
As at 31 March 2022 179,234 30,338 1,264 59 6 210,901
The Board leases several assets including leasehold land, commercial units, residential units,
office equipment and motor vehicles. The lease terms range from 2 to 99 years.
The contracts of leases for right-of-use assets which expired in the current financial year were either
replaced by new leases for identical underlying assets or extended through exercising the extension
options. This resulted in additions to right-of-use assets of $5,444,000 (2022 : $5,665,000).
Depreciation of residential units amounting to $1,499,000 (2022 : $1,511,000) is shown as employee
benefits expenses under Note 21 while the remaining depreciation of right-of-use assets of
$28,498,000 (2022 : $29,979,000) is shown as a separate line in the statement of comprehensive
income.
28

--- PAGE 100 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Development
Computer projects-in-
software progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2021 34,846 1,327 36,173
Additions 5,233 - 5,233
Reclassifications 1,327 (1,327) -
At 31 March 2022 41,406 - 41,406
Additions 5,886 - 5,886
At 31 March 2023 47,292 - 47,292
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 April 2021 25,975 - 25,975
Amortisation for the year 8,364 - 8,364
At 31 March 2022 34,339 - 34,339
Amortisation for the year 3,664 - 3,664
At 31 March 2023 38,003 - 38,003
Carrying amounts:
At 31 March 2023 9,289 - 9,289
At 31 March 2022 7,067 - 7,067
13 OTHER INVESTMENTS
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Unquoted equity shares at FVTOCI 2,076 2,076
29

--- PAGE 101 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
14 ACCRUALS AND OTHER PAYABLES
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Accruals 69,591 75,869
Other payables:
- Ministries and other government agencies 7,796 4,808
- Others 23,486 28,781
Total accruals and other payables 100,873 109,458
Less: Amount due for settlement after 12 months (25) (37)
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 100,848 109,421
The average credit period for trade payables is 30 to 60 days (2022 : 30 to 90 days).
15 ADVANCES AND DEPOSITS RECEIVED
There are no new advances and deposits received for the year (2022 : $68,950) from the Government,
which are to be disbursed for designated projects within advances and deposits received.
16 DEFERRED CAPITAL GRANTS
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
At beginning of year 183,063 184,141
Capital grants received 8,648 15,504
Less: Amortisation of deferred capital grant (17,683) (16,582)
At end of year 174,028 183,063
30

--- PAGE 102 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
17 LEASE LIABILITIES
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Maturity analysis:
1 year 10,132 15,143
2 to 5 years 5,114 13,353
More than 5 years 333 449
15,579 28,945
Less: Unearned interest (359) (1,282)
15,220 27,663
Represented by:
Current 9,871 14,191
Non-current 5,349 13,472
15,220 27,663
Reconciliation of lease liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the board’s lease liabilities arising from financing activities, including
both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash
flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the board’s statement of cash flows as cash flows
from financing activities.
31 March Financing New lease 31 March
2022 cash flows liabilities 2023
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Lease liabilities 27,663 (17,887) 5,444 15,220
31 March Financing New lease 31 March
2021 cash flows liabilities 2022
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Lease liabilities 38,093 (16,095) 5,665 27,663
31

--- PAGE 103 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
18 SHARE CAPITAL
2023 2022 2023 2022
Number of ordinary shares $’000 $’000
’000 ’000
Issued and paid up:
At beginning of year 575,691 571,787 575,691 571,787
Equity injection (1) 6,642 3,904 6,642 3,904
At end of year 582,333 575,691 582,333 575,691
(1) Injections of capital in 2022 and 2023 are part of the Capital Management Framework for
Statutory Boards under Finance Circular Minute M26/2008. The shares have been fully paid for
to fund tourism-related assets and are held by the Minister for Finance, a body corporate
incorporated by the Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act 1959 . The holder of these shares,
which has no par value, is entitled to receive dividends from the Board.
19 TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year 6,149 (924)
Add: Receipts - funds received from the Government 267,837 352,788
Less: Funds disbursed to:
- External parties (240,169) (343,256)
- Other government agencies (55) (2,459)
Balance at end of year 33,762 6,149
Represented by:
- Cash balances 34,094 3,640
- Other receivables 240 5,014
- Other payables - (1,798)
- Accruals (572) (707)
33,762 6,149
The trust and agency funds are used for tourism-related incentive schemes and for tourism-related
development projects.
32

--- PAGE 104 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
20 OPERATING INCOME
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Events-related income 24,060 53
Lease income 15,320 12,252
Others 2,314 2,651
41,694 14,956
21 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Wages and salaries 79,575 76,862
Contributions to defined contribution plan 8,733 8,452
Other staff benefits 8,166 8,044
Depreciation on residential units (Note 11) 1,499 1,511
97,973 94,869
NET
22 INVESTMENT LOSS
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Interest income 4,008 6,494
Net fair value (loss on financial assets under
fund management (19,842) (16,412)
Exchange (loss)/gain on financial assets under fund management (307) 227
Expenses on financial assets under fund management (238) (481)
(16,379) (10,172)
23 OTHER INCOME
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Interest income from bank 2,144 411
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 145 30
2,289 441
33

--- PAGE 105 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
24 OTHER EXPENSES
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Loss on disposal of right-of-use assets 22 -
Allowance for credit losses (Note 7) 19 17
Interest expense on lease liabilities 1,096 1,573
1,137 1,590
25 CONTRIBUTION TO CONSOLIDATED FUND
The Board is required to make contributions to the Government Consolidated Fund in accordance with
the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated Fund) Act, 1989. The contribution is based
on the guidelines specified by the Ministry of Finance. It is computed at the prevailing corporate tax
rate based on the net surplus (if any) of the Board for each of the financial year adjusted for any
accumulated deficits brought forward from prior years. Contribution to consolidated fund is provided
on an accrual basis. The Board has $139,623,000 (2022 : $138,715,000) of unrecognised deferred
benefits relating to unutilised deficits to be carried forward to offset against future surplus.
At the end of the financial year, STB has accumulated deficits carried forward as follows:
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of the year 138,715 87,820
Amount recognised in current year 908 50,895
Balance at end of the year 139,623 138,715
Benefits on above not recognised at 17% (2022 : 17%) 23,736 23,582
Benefits in relation to the accumulated deficits were not recognised due to the unpredictability of
future surplus streams.
34

--- PAGE 106 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
26 COMMITMENTS
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised in the financial
statements were analysed as follows:
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Amount contracted for capital expenditure 98 19,604
(b) Other commitments
During the financial year, the Board paid a total fee of $879,474 (2022 : $1,395,223) for the
use of the computer equipment and related services under Whole-of-Government Information
Communications Technology. These incurrences were recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income.
The future aggregate minimum committed payments at the reporting date but not recognised
as liabilities as at 31 March 2023 are as follows:
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Within one year 686 753
In the second to fifth year inclusive 462 541
1,148 1,294
27 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
The Board as a lessee
Amount recognised in profit or loss relating to leases
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Expense relating to short-term leases 4,098 2,552
Expense relating to leases of low value assets 317 480
4,415 3,032
At 31 March 2023, the Board is committed to $1,711,000 (2022 : $2,687,000) for short-term lease
and $1,400,000 (2022 : $1,698,000) for low valued assets.
35

--- PAGE 107 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2023
The Board as a lessor
The Board has entered into property leases. These leases typically run for an initial period of one to
fifteen years, with an option to renew the lease after that period. Operating and financing lease income
earned during the year was $13,766,000 (2022 : $11,184,000) and $ 1,554,000 (2022 : $1,068,000)
respectively.
2023 2022
$’000 $’000
Maturity analysis:
Year 1 10,265 12,169
Year 2 2,755 9,402
Year 3 2,261 1,884
Year 4 2,092 1,934
Year 5 174 2,092
Year 6 onwards 17 192
17,564 27,673
28 DIVIDENDS
There were no dividends paid during the year in respect of the results for the financial year ended
31 March 2023 (2022 : Nil).
36