

--- PAGE 1 ---

RESET
RECOVER
REIGNITE
ANNUAL
R E P O RT
2021 - 2022

--- PAGE 2 ---

Table of Contents
ABOUT STB
Vision & Mission
Values
An Interconnected World
RESET
In Conversation with Our Chairman
Dialogue with the Chief Executive
Board of Directors
Senior Management
Business Groups
RECOVER
Tourism Sector Performance
Calendar of Events
Awards and Accolades
REIGNITE
Marketing Singapore to the World
Corporate Governance
Financial Statement

--- PAGE 3 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 3
About STB
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STB is a statutory board under the Ministry
of Trade and Industry of Singapore. It is
the lead development agency for tourism,
one of Singapore’s key economic sectors.
Together with industry partners and the
community, it shapes a dynamic Singapore
tourism landscape, and brings the Passion
Made Possible brand to life by differentiating
Singapore as a vibrant destination that inspires
people to share and deepen their passions.
STB ensures that tourism remains an important
and vibrant economic pillar through long-term
strategic planning, and by forging partnerships,
driving innovation and promoting excellence in
the tourism sector.

--- PAGE 4 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 4
About STB
Vision Mission
A vibrant and inspiring To shape a dynamic tourism
Destination Singapore landscape for Singapore in
that we are proud of. partnership with the industry
and community.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 5
About STB
Values
Care Courage Integrity Team
Care for One Another Dare to Speak Behave Responsibly Succeed as a Team
We show empathy and care We speak up and share our We are reliable, fair and honest in We take responsibility for our
through supportive actions thoughts with conviction our dealings with our stakeholders, individual roles and work together
and encouraging words for one and respect towards others. partners and colleagues. We uphold to contribute to STB’s success. We
another and the community. the Board’s reputation. appreciate and recognise everyone’s
Dare to Dream effort and celebrate success together.
Nurture One Another We challenge traditions, norms and Passion
We promote a nurturing assumptions with fresh ideas and Bond as a Team
Believe in Our Purpose
environment by supporting, perspectives. We take bold steps to We seek to understand and respect
We are energetic, driven and believe
helping out and looking out experiment and translate ideas to plans individual differences. We make
in the purpose of our work.
for one another. for the future. time to have fun together and put
smiles on one another’s faces.
Driven to Excel
Respect for One Another Dare to Do
We love what we do and take
We respect one another by listening We endeavour to make a difference. Learn as a Team
pride in delivering impactful
to other points of view with an We believe in making wise decisions We learn from one another
and quality work.
open mind and recognising the in every circumstance, even if it by sharing knowledge and
contribution/effort of one another. means taking calculated risks in resources and learning from
difficult or unclear situations. successes/failures to achieve
team success together.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 6
Regional Offices
An Interconnected World Americas Europe
STB’s mandate to grow Singapore’s Americas, San Francisco United Kingdom, London Belgium, Brussels
tourism sector is reinforced by a
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
robust overseas presence. Our global
999 Baker Way, Suite 120 Singapore Centre 143/4 Avenue Louise
network of 19 offices and 5 marketing
San Mateo, California 94404 First Floor, Southwest House 1050 Brussels
representatives promote Singapore
United States of America 11A Regent Street Belgium
as a destination in seven key regions.
London, SW1Y 4LR
Americas, New York City United Kingdom France, Paris
Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Tourism Board
Germany, Frankfurt Marketing Representative
589 Fifth Avenue
Suite 710 Singapore Tourism Board Interface Tourism France
New York, NY 10017 Bockenheimer Landstr. 24 16 Rue Ballu
United States of America 60323 Frankfurt, Germany 75009 Paris, France
Italy, Milan
Singapore Tourism Board
Marketing Representative
PR & GO UP Communication Partners
Fabio Filzi, 27
20124 Milan, Italy

--- PAGE 7 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 7
Regional Offices
Greater China India, Middle East & South Asia North Asia
Beijing Chengdu India, Mumbai Japan, Tokyo
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 3101-3106 21F, Tower 2, Singapore Centre #3414 Marunouchi Building
China World Tower 1 Raffles City Chengdu Unit 216-217, The Capital 2-4-1 Marunouchi
No.1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue No.3 Section 4 G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex Chiyoda-ku
Beijing 100004 South Renmin Road Bandra (East) Tokyo 100-6334, Japan
People’s Republic of China Chengdu, 610041 Mumbai 400051, India
People’s Republic of China Korea, Seoul
Shanghai India, New Delhi
Hong Kong
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 1509-11 Singapore Tourism Board PR Agency Singapore Centre 3F Seoul Finance Center
Shui On Plaza Sinclair Unit 4A, 4th Floor 136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu
333 Huai Hai Zhong Road 7/F, 299QRC, 299 Queen’s Road Central, Aria Tower Seoul 04520, South Korea
Shanghai 200021 Sheung Wan, Hong Kong JW Marriott Asset Area 4
People’s Republic of China Tel: (852) 2915 1234 Delhi Aerocity
Contact: Ms Yvonne Kwok
Hospitality District
Guangzhou stb@sinclaircomms.com
New Delhi 110037, India
Singapore Tourism Board
Taipei
Unit 6104 CITIC Plaza
No.233 Tianhe North Road Singapore Tourism Board
Guangzhou, Tianhe District Marketing Representative
Guangdong 510613 Connex Communications Co., Ltd
People’s Republic of China 8F, No.9, Ln. 130 Sec. 3, Minsheng E. Road
Songshan District
Taipei City 10596, Taiwan

--- PAGE 8 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 8
Regional Offices
Oceania Southeast Asia
Australia, Sydney Indonesia, Jakarta Philippines, Manila
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
11th Floor AWA Building 19th Floor, Unit 01 Unit 704 Ayala Triangle Gardens Tower 2
47 York Street Maya Pada Tower 1 Paseo De Roxas cor Makati Avenue
Sydney NSW 2000, Australia Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 28 Makati City, Philippines 1226
Jakarta 12920, Indonesia
Australia, Melbourne
Singapore Tourism Board Indonesia, Surabaya Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh City
Marketing Representative Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
GTI Tourism Regus Pakuwon Centre Unit 03, 11th Floor
Contact: Ms Kerrin Trenorden Unit 2335, Level 23 Saigon Centre, Tower 2
Kerrin.Trenorden@gtitourism.com.au Jalan Embong Malang No.1-5 67 Le Loi, District 1
Surabaya 60261, Indonesia Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur
Singapore Tourism Board
Lot 4-6-1, Level 4
Equatorial Plaza
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

--- PAGE 9 ---

Singapore Tourism Board
Annual Report 2021/2022
RESET
Reflecting on the past year, we are reconnecting with
who we are, bringing valuable insights that pave the
way for Destination Singapore to flourish.
9

--- PAGE 10 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 10
In Conversation
With Our Chairman
As the world continues to adapt to the new
normal, how should Singapore’s tourism sector
Reflecting on the past year build resilience and recapture demand?
2021 will be remembered as a watershed We must create and preserve good jobs, focus on
year for Singapore tourism. This was the customer-centric experiences, and anticipate the
year when we applied our learnings from evolving needs of the market. It may be tempting
the early days of the pandemic, pushed to go back to doing things the same way we did
the boundaries of innovation, and put into before the pandemic. But, to stay ahead, we must
motion many of the plans to transform our push the envelope and find creative solutions.
industry for years to come. For example, thanks to Singapore’s event venues
and organisers who stepped up and invested in
new solutions, we now have the capability to host
business events that leverage technology to reach
a wider audience, while allowing delegates to
network face-to-face safely. The ability to adapt
quickly puts us in good stead to compete in a post-
pandemic environment.
Mr Chaly Mah
Chairman, Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 11 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 11
In Conversation
With Our Chairman
As the world continues to adapt to the new
normal, how should Singapore’s tourism sector What does STB envision for the
build resilience and recapture demand? (cont’d) future of business travel?
Our tourism workforce must therefore become We have continued our focus on digital Demand for face-to-face business events grew
more agile. One of our top priorities is to help transformation, and launched the Tourism in 2021, and many events have resumed fully
tourism businesses and workers navigate this Technology Transformation Cube (Tcube), which physical events in 2022. We will continue our
early phase of recovery. STB, NTUC and Workforce offers programmes focusing on digital skills like strategy to create, attract and grow high-quality
Singapore set up the Tourism Careers Hub in data analytics. To build Augmented Reality (AR) Meetings, Incentives, Conventions & Exhibitions
late 2021, to extend end-to-end job facilitation, capabilities, STB developed 3D models of our (MICE) events out of Singapore, so that Singapore
training and support for the workforce, enabling points of interests for tourism businesses to use can be a home to best-in-class MICE events,
displaced workers to bounce back quickly, and via our Tourism Information and Services hub. especially those that can bring Asian, European
to help employers find and train the workers they This concept has been broadened into “Extended and American businesses together.
need with the right skillsets. Reality” which encompasses Augmented, Mixed
STB also intends to grow business events that
and Virtual Reality. We have already seen some
are relevant to the needs of the future. These
promising developments in this area. Local
include events in the fields of sustainability, urban
attraction S.E.A. Aquarium developed an AR
solutions, food security, energy security, fintech,
application for visitors to interact with marine
and advanced manufacturing. In this way, our
animals digitally and learn more about marine life,
MICE sector can support the growth of Singapore-
while Grand Park City Hall created a solar-system
based companies, giving them a competitive
themed AR app for its younger guests.
advantage in these areas.

--- PAGE 12 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 12
In Conversation
With Our Chairman
How has the pandemic shaped STB’s plans
for the future?
The pandemic has renewed our appreciation The growing emphasis on wellness has also We already see a high level of commitment
for wellness and sustainability, which influence been reflected in our own workplace practices. from tourism stakeholders. Sentosa launched
travellers’ motivations. We are developing STB maintains a strong emphasis on personal the Sustainable Sentosa strategic roadmap in
strategies and working with our industry learning and growth, where staff have the September 2021 to achieve carbon neutrality
partners to curate new experiences that respond flexibility to pursue learning and wellness by 2030, and to become a globally recognised,
to these trends and emerging traveller needs. activities of their choice. certified sustainable tourism destination. In March
2021, Singapore’s hotels led a collective effort to
Wellness tourism is projected to grow and Responsible tourism is another area of
launch the Hotel Sustainability Roadmap – which
reach US$1.1 trillion by 2025. Singapore is well- focus, with sustainability being a top-of-mind
was one of the world’s first. We also aim to make
positioned to establish itself as a leading Urban concern for many travellers. We are constantly
our leisure and sports events more sustainable.
Wellness destination that prioritises holistic incorporating sustainability elements into
For example, we are now working to transform the
well-being and offers accessible “must-do” our tourism offerings to achieve our vision
Formula 1 Singapore Airlines Singapore Grand Prix
experiences, so that visitors leave feeling better of becoming a City in Nature. To reduce our
into one of the most environmentally sustainable
than when they arrived. carbon footprint for tourism, we can optimise
street circuits and are exploring innovative
sustainability across the value chain, use cleaner
There are many opportunities for Singapore to solutions to reduce its carbon footprint.
energy sources, procure sustainably sourced
curate and anchor unique wellness experiences
products and enhance biodiversity conservation
and concepts and forge new partnerships
in Singapore.
with leading players in the wellness business.
We launched the inaugural Wellness Festival
in June 2022, the first nationwide effort to
promote holistic wellbeing. This will pave the
way to grow our base of wellness advocates and
catalyse more wellness-related partnerships
and experiences in Singapore.

--- PAGE 13 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 13
In Conversation
With Our Chairman
How has the pandemic shaped STB’s plans
“
for the future? (cont’d)
In 2022, we will participate in the Global
To reduce our carbon footprint
Destination Sustainability Index for the
for tourism, we can optimise
first time, to benchmark our sustainability
performance against other MICE destinations. sustainability across the value
We will start our journey for Singapore to be chain, use cleaner energy sources,
certified as a sustainable destination under the
procure sustainably sourced
Global Sustainable Tourism Council’s (GSTC’s)
products and enhance biodiversity
Destination Criteria. STB will also work with other
segments of the tourism sector to set ambitious conservation in Singapore.
targets and strategies. For instance, the Singapore
These unique practices, value
Association of Convention & Exhibition Organisers
propositions and sustainable
& Suppliers (SACEOS) plan to align their MICE
Sustainability Certification with internationally- mindsets can show us the way
recognised standards.
forward.
There is much work still to be done. But the
”
passion and dedication shown by our partners the
past year gives me confidence that Singapore’s
tourism will thrive in the years to come.

--- PAGE 14 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 14
Dialogue with the
Chief Executive
Embracing Possibilities, Igniting Change
COVID-19 brought much hardship to Singapore’s Even though international travel came to a
tourism sector. But as we emerge from the standstill, we did not halt international marketing.
pandemic, we have also seen how it brought out We worked very hard to maintain Singapore as a
the best in us. STB officers had to be agile and top-of-mind destination by bringing our offerings
innovative in our work, while keeping an eye virtually to international audiences, and launched
on our long-term strategies and investments. SingapoRediscovers to garner much-needed local
In the first year of the pandemic, we worked support for our tourism businesses. Thanks to
with government agencies and tourism the hard work and the support of our industry
establishments to implement new processes, partners, we started to see signs of recovery in
from SG Clean certification and housing those 2021.
on Stay Home Notices, to developing robust Safe
Management Measures.
Mr Keith Tan
Chief Executive, Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 15 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 15
Dialogue with the
Chief Executive
What were the highlights of 2021 that
“
helped the tourism sector’s recovery?
The SingapoRediscovers campaign maintained We started to see some recovery in leisure travel in
We worked very hard to maintain
its momentum, helping to drive domestic 2021, with the launch of Vaccinated Travel Lanes
Singapore as a top-of-mind
consumption and motivating the tourism sector with various countries. We learned what worked and
to develop new and innovative experiences for did not work, and what helped to give confidence to destination by bringing our
locals. By the end of the SingapoRediscovers travellers without causing too much inconvenience. offerings virtually to international
Vouchers (SRV) scheme on 31 December 2021, These experiences gave us the confidence to open
audiences, and launched
about 2.6 million transactions and close to our borders even more in 2022.
SingapoRediscovers to garner
$300 million in SRV transactions were recorded,
comprising close to $180 million in vouchers much-needed local support for
and about $120 million in out-of-pocket
our tourism businesses.
payments for SRV bookings.
”
At the same time, business events picked up
pace in 2021, with more than 200 business
events hosted in Singapore. We also welcomed
more lifestyle and sports events. By early 2022,
when more borders started to reopen across the
globe, STB accelerated the SingapoReimagine
international recovery campaign in markets
such as USA, UK and Australia.

--- PAGE 16 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 16
Dialogue with the
Chief Executive
With the world opening up, what role did STB
play in the reopening of borders through the
Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs) and now the
Vaccinated Travel Framework (VTF)?
STB worked closely with other government In addition, STB worked with Singapore hotels to
agencies and industry stakeholders to simplify offer in-situ COVID-19 testing facilities to ensure
the steps and procedures required of foreigners a seamless visitor experience with convenient
to enter Singapore, and disseminated the latest testing options for our visitors, when the VTL was
travel information through our channels and first launched with post-arrival testing.
overseas offices so that visitors were always
The simplified VTF has since streamlined the
updated with the latest measures.
processes even more, but our earlier efforts
Many teams in STB played a role to make this underscored the importance of taking a traveller-
happen. Our Visitor Experience team led an inter- centric approach in everything we do. We want
agency workshop to map the VTL Visitor Journey Singapore to be known as a destination that
and to propose solutions to streamline policy and understands and prioritises the experiences of
operational workflows. I’m proud to share that its visitors – not just during COVID-19, but in the
together with the other government agencies, years to come as well.
the team won the Silver Borderless Award at the
MTI Firefly Awards 2022 for their collaborative
spirit and efforts. STB and our regional offices also
hosted several dialogues and workshops to gather
feedback and suggestions on Singapore’s VTL.

--- PAGE 17 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 17
Dialogue with the
Chief Executive
Since 2020, STB has invested in marketing to
locals, encouraging them to enjoy Singapore’s
very own attractions. As international travel
resumes, does STB intend to continue tapping
on the domestic audience?
When international travel was not possible, These efforts enabled the tourism sector to
we had a captive audience here in Singapore, create innovative and authentic products that
looking for safe and meaningful experiences. would also appeal to visitors. More importantly,
Many of them were surprised by the breadth the pandemic created an opportunity to win
and depth of what Singapore had to offer, and more local support: there are now more residents
were able to enjoy new experiences that tourism who can be advocates for what Singapore has to
businesses developed, often with new partners. offer, with a deeper appreciation for the vibrancy
For example, hotels launched stay packages in that tourism brings to the city we live in. STB
tandem with events, brand owners, and even therefore plans to continue engaging locals so
neighbourhoods and precincts, including Grand that they will continue to rediscover Singapore
Hyatt’s collaboration with homegrown activewear and support tourism businesses.
brand Kydra, and Wanderlust Hotel’s partnership
with art establishment OH! Open House.

--- PAGE 18 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 18
Board of Directors
Mr Chaly Mah Chee Kheong Mr Keith Tan
Mr Chaly Mah had served in Deloitte for over 38 years. Mr Keith Tan assumed the appointment of Chief Executive
Prior to his retirement on 31 May 2016, he was CEO of of the Singapore Tourism Board on 29 October 2018.
Deloitte Asia Pacific and Chairman of Deloitte Singapore,
From 2014 to 2018, he served as the Deputy Secretary
and Vice Chairman of Deloitte Global Board of Directors.
(Policy) in the Ministry of Defence, where he strengthened
He has extensive experience serving both multinational
Singapore’s international defence partnerships, led
and local companies across a wide spectrum of industries,
MINDEF’s longer-term strategic planning and guided
specialising in financial services, telecommunications and
MINDEF’s strategic communications and public
technology, real estate, private equity and manufacturing.
engagement efforts.
Mr Mah is currently Chairman of Netlink NBN Management
From 2013 to 2014, Keith was concurrently the Senior
Pte Ltd, the Singapore Accountancy Commission and
Director of the Public Service Division’s PS21 Office, and
National University of Singapore Business School
Institute Director in the Institute of Governance and Policy
Accounting Advisory Board. He is also a board member
at Singapore’s Civil Service College. Keith also served in
of Capitaland Limited, Singapore Economic Development
the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) as Director of the
Board, Monetary Authority of Singapore and the National
Economics and Strategy Division (2008 - 2010) and the
University of Singapore Board of Trustees.
Foreign Economic Policy Division (2010 - 2013).
Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 19 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 19
Board of Directors
Ms Audrey Kuah Mr Aaron Shahril Mr Lim Eng Hwee
Yusoff Maniam
Ms Audrey Kuah is Head, Group Marketing, Group Mr Aaron Shahril Yusoff Maniam is currently Deputy Mr Lim Eng Hwee is the Chief Executive Officer of the
Consumer Financial Services at OCBC Bank. In her Secretary (Industry and Information) at the Ministry of Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) with effect from
current role, Ms Kuah drives business and growth focused Communications and Information. From September 1st September 2017. URA is Singapore’s national planning
marketing initiatives for OCBC. Prior to OCBC, Ms Kuah 2014 to September 2017, Mr Maniam was Senior Director agency, responsible for the physical planning and urban
was the former Executive Director, Media Practice - Asia (Industry) at the Ministry of Trade and Industry, where development of Singapore.
Pacific at Dentsu Aegis Network. As Executive Director, he was responsible for coordinating economic policies
Mr Lim was formerly the Chief Planner and Deputy Chief
Media Practice – Asia Pacific, she was responsible for the and regulating the manufacturing, services and tourism
Executive Officer of URA from 2009 to 2017. He has
evolution of the business model and future capabilities. sectors, as well as overseeing long-term economic
extensive experience in urban planning, urban design,
She was also global head of its first R&D Centre, where transformation.
implementation of land use policies and development
she was responsible for the development of proprietary
Mr Maniam has held various positions in the Civil Service, initiatives. He also served in the Ministry of National
and future forward marketing platforms that combined
including postings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Development and Ministry of Trade and Industry.
machine learning, artificial intelligence, cloud technology
Strategic Policy Office and Centre for Strategic Futures at
and the deep marketing expertise of Dentsu Group. Ms He served as a member in the Boards of Land Transport
the Public Service Division.
Kuah was also its Chief Client Officer, Southeast Asia and Authority, Singapore Cooperation Enterprise and
former Singapore CEO. Singapore Science Centre. He currently sits on the Boards
of Singapore Tourism Board, National Environment
Ms Kuah’s expertise in marketing, digital and advertising
Agency and the International Federation for Housing and
has been deployed across industries and geographies, for
Planning. He is also a Member of the Board Committee for
more than two decades. Ms Kuah is active in the industry
Racecourse Masterplan for Tote Board.
and is on the board of Intellectual Property Office of
Singapore International. She was also a member of the Mr Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Planning from the
Future Economy Council Modern Services Sub-Committee. University of Auckland. He also holds a Master in Public
Administration from Harvard University and attended the
Ms Kuah was awarded an MBA from The University of
Wharton Advanced Management Program at the University
Chicago Booth School of Business in 2007 and graduated
of Pennsylvania.
with a B.A. from National University of Singapore in 1992.
Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 20 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 20
Board of Directors
Mr Ravi Thakran Ms Thien Kwee Eng Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni
Mr Ravi Thakran is the Founder, Chairman & Managing Ms Thien Kwee Eng assumed the appointment of CEO of Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni has been a partner in PwC LLP
Partner of Turmeric Capital, and also the Chairman & Chief Sentosa Development Corporation (SDC) on 1 June 2020. Singapore since 2012. He started in PwC as an associate in
Executive Officer of Aspirational Consumer Lifestyle Corp, 2000 and has 20 years of experience in the audit industry,
Prior to that, Ms Thien was the Executive Vice President
USA. Mr. Thakran founded L Capital Asia in 2008 and led it three of which were spent on secondment to the PwC
of the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB)
as Chairman and Managing Partner from its inception. Mr. US Firm in its San Francisco office. He is also one of the
overseeing EDB’s global customer experience, marketing
Thakran led the development of L Capital Asia which went Firm’s partner contacts as it relates to US Accounting
& public affairs and investment facilitation activities. Ms
on to become one of the largest consumer-focused growth and Auditing matters as well as US-bound cross border
Thien has held leadership roles in investment promotion
investors in Asia. With L Capital Asia, Ravi invested in over security transactions. Saiful’s areas of specialty are in the
and industry development across various sectors during
35 companies across Asia Pacific. Five of these companies Energy, Utilities and Mining as well as Technology and
her time in EDB, including Consumer and Lifestyle
crossed $1 billion in annual revenues. Transport sectors. He is actively involved in the audits of
businesses, Health and Wellness as well as Infocomm
SEC registrants.
Mr Thakran also served in many senior roles in several and Media. She has also led corporate-wide initiatives to
business verticals of the LVMH Group, the world’s largest catalyse new business creation and innovation in large Mr Saroni also sits on the Boards of Mercy Relief, Building
luxury goods company. Over two decades at LVMH, Mr. corporations. and Construction Authority and Singapore Anti-Narcotics
Thakran eventually assumed the roles of Group President Association. He is also a member of M3 Advisory Council,
From 2000 to 2001, Ms Thien was the Business
for LVMH South Asia & South East Asia, Australia & New as well as the Woodlands Citizen Consultative Committee.
Development Director of Asiacontent.com’s business
Zealand and Middle East in 2009 and Group Chairman
in China. She also served as First Secretary (Trade and He graduated with a Bachelor of Accountancy from
for LVMH South Asia & South East Asia, Australia & New
Industry) at the Embassy of Singapore in Beijing from 2001 Nanyang Technological University (Honours). He is a
Zealand and Middle East in 2015.
to 2004 and was responsible for promoting Singapore- member of ISCA, as well as a member of the American
Prior to his time at LVMH, Mr Thakran held senior China trade and industry relations. Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
management positions at the Swatch Group, Nike and the
Ms Thien serves on the Board of the Singapore Food
Tata Group.
Agency, DesignSingapore Council and Women’s Forum
Mr Thakran holds an MBA from the Indian Institute of Asia. In 2017, she was conferred the Public Administration
Management, Ahmedabad. Medal (Silver). Ms Thien graduated from the National
University of Singapore with a Bachelor of Social Sciences
Beyond his corporate responsibilities, Mr Thakran serves
in Economics.
as Business Ambassador for Latin America in South East
Asia, and Trustee of the Global Conservation Corps. He is
also involved in the Federal Commission on Fashion and
Women’s Wellness in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Indian
Partition Museum, Amritsar, Indian Heritage Museum,
Singapore and Save the Rhino Project, South Africa.
Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 21 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 21
Board of Directors
Mrs Wong Ai Ai Mr Arthur Lang Ms Soh Siew Choo
Mrs Wong Ai Ai is recognised as one of Baker McKenzie’s Mr Arthur Lang is the Group Chief Financial Officer Ms Soh Siew Choo is the Chief Information Officer for
most distinguished lawyers, with a career that spans of Singtel and his responsibilities include the Asia at Metlife. She is responsible for the end-to-end
leading a range of landmark transactions for blue-chip management of the International Group that oversees technology delivery partnering with the business to
clients, to global management and leadership roles at the the Group’s regional associates and its portfolio build leading digital experiences for customers.
highest levels of the Firm, including serving as a member of of strategic telecom investments. He spearheads
Prior to Metlife, Ms Soh was the Head of Technology
the Global Executive Committee and chair of the Asia Pacific Singtel’s ongoing digital bank joint venture with Grab.
for Consumer Banking & Big Data/AI at DBS Bank. She
region.
Before joining Singtel, Mr Lang was the Group CFO was responsible for driving the digital transformation
As a transactional lawyer, Mrs Wong has been recognised as of CapitaLand, where he also ran CapitaLand’s real and AI-driven agenda adopting truly Agile ways of
a leading individual and eminent practitioner for corporate/ estate investment management business. Prior to working and cloud native architecture.
M&A matters by publications including Chambers Asia CapitaLand, he was at Morgan Stanley where he was
Ms Soh has over two decades of experience in
Pacific, Legal 500 Asia Pacific and IFLR1000. Co-head of the Southeast Asia investment banking
senior technology leadership roles in the Corporate
division and Chief Operating Officer of the Asia Pacific
Outside of Baker McKenzie, Mrs Wong is a founding steering & Investment Bank, working for JPMorgan across
investment banking division.
committee member of Climate Governance Singapore Singapore, Tokyo and Hong Kong prior to joining DBS.
Limited, a World Economic Forum-led initiative to Mr Lang was appointed as Chairman of the National
She is also an avid advocate of Women in Technology,
educate non-executive directors on the opportunities and Kidney Foundation in November 2020. He is also a
driving many innovative initiatives in the areas of
challenges for their companies arising from climate change board member of Bharti Airtel, Intouch Holdings, AIS,
mentorship, allyship, recruitment and retention
and its consequences. the Straits Times School Pocket Money Fund.
amongst others. She was named as an honoree in
She is a strong advocate for, and a former Chairman of, the Women Leaders in AI award by IBM in 2019 and
the Yellow Ribbon Fund, the first national charitable 2021. She was also recognised as an awardee in the
fund devoted entirely towards the development and inaugural Singapore 100 Women in Tech in 2020,
implementation of rehabilitation and reintegration organised by IMDA/Singapore Computer Society of
programmes for ex-offenders and their families. Mrs Wong Singapore. In addition, Ms Soh was conferred with
is also a Justice of the Peace. the Distinguished Computing Alumni Service Award,
from her alma mater, National University of Singapore
She graduated from the University of Kent, with a Bachelor
(NUS) School of Computing, for bringing honour to
of Arts in Law First Class Honours, and holds a Master of
NUS in her chosen endeavours in her career.
Law from Harvard University Law School. She is admitted
to practice in Singapore, New York, England, and Wales
(Grays Inn).
Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 22 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 22
Senior Management
Mr Keith Tan Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Jeannie Lim Mr Chang Chee Pey Ms Juliana Kua Mr Wong Ming Fai
Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive, Assistant Chief Executive, Assistant Chief Executive, Assistant Chief Executive, Chief Technology Officer & QSM,
Corporate Group & Policy & Planning Group Marketing Group International Group Technology Transformation Group
Experience Development Group & World Expo Advisor

--- PAGE 23 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 23
Business Groups
Corporate Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Chew Chien Way Ms Hazel Teh Mr Alfred Chiam
Deputy Chief Executive, Director, Director, Head,
Corporate Group & Human Resources & Compliance Internal Audit*,
Experience Development Group Organisation Development & Corporate Services Chairman's Office
Ms Ong Siew Hwee Mr Evan Koh Ms Geraldine Yeo
Director, Director, Principal Specialist
Finance Legal (Learning)
*The Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) and administratively to the Chief Executive

--- PAGE 24 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 24
Business Groups
Marketing Group
Mr Chang Chee Pey Ms Lilian Chee Ms Choo Huei Miin
Assistant Chief Executive, Director, Director,
Marketing Group Industry Marketing Brand
Mr Terrence Voon Ms Georgina Koh Mr Kenneth Lim
Director, Director, Executive Director*,
Communications Marketing Activation Marketing Partnerships, Planning
& Capability Development
* Mr Kenneth Lim was appointed Executive Director, Marketing Partnerships, Planning & Capability Development on 1 August 2022.

--- PAGE 25 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 25
Business Groups
Experience Development Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Ong Ling Lee Ms Guo Teyi Ms Lim Shoo Ling
Deputy Chief Executive, Executive Director, Director*, Director,
Corporate Group & Sports and Wellness Retail & Dining Arts & Cultural Precincts
Experience Development Group
Ms Ashlynn Loo Ms Serene Tan Mr Poh Chi Chuan
Dr Edward Koh
Director, Director, Executive Director,
Executive Director,
Attractions, Entertainment & Safe Management Exhibitions & Conferences
Conventions, Meetings
Tourism Concept Development Measures Operations
& Incentive Travel
*Ms Guo Teyi was appointed Director, Retail & Dining on 1 September 2022

--- PAGE 26 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 26
Business Groups
Policy & Planning Group
Ms Jeannie Lim Ms Cherie Lee Ms Annie Chang Ms Jacqueline Ng
Assistant Chief Executive, Director, Director*, Director*,
Policy & Planning Group Strategic Planning & Incentive Policy, Travel Agents & Tourist Guides Cruise
Chief Sustainability Officer
Ms Ranita Sundramoorthy Ms Tan Yen Nee Ms Geraldine Yeo
Executive Director, Director, Director,
Infrastructure Planning Hospitality Stay-Home Notice Operations
& Management
*Ms Annie Chang was appointed Director, Travel Agents & Tourist Guides on 1 September 2022
Ms Jacqueline Ng was appointed Director, Cruise on 1 September 2022

--- PAGE 27 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 27
Business Groups
Technology Transformation Group
Mr Wong Ming Fai Ms Jue Lu Ms Serene Fong Ms Ong Huey Hong Ms Wong Chin Hwei
Chief Technology Officer & QSM, Chief Experience Officer*, Director, Executive Director, Director,
Technology Transformation Group User Experience Centre of Excellence Data Science and Analytics Industry Technology Transformation Information Services
Ms Goh Kershing Ms Karen Ann Leong Ms Shameem Mustaffa Ms Lim Pei Shan
Senior Vice President, Chief, Chief Data Officer Director,
Future Tourism The Collaboratory Visitor Experience
*Ms Jue Lu was appointed Chief Experience Officer, User Experience Centre of Excellence on 1 April 2022.

--- PAGE 28 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 28
Business Groups
International Group
Ms Juliana Kua Ms Carrie Kwik Ms Rachel Loh Mr John Gregory Conceicao Mr Markus Tan
Assistant Chief Executive, Executive Director, Senior Vice President, Executive Director, Director*,
International Group Europe Americas Southeast Asia World Expo
& World Expo Advisor
Mr Oliver Chong Mr G B Srithar Mr Andrew Phua Ms Serene Tan
Executive Director, Regional Director, Chief Representative Regional Director*,
International Group HQ India, Middle East, South Asia & Executive Director, North Asia
& Oceania & Africa Greater China
*Mr Markus Tan was appointed Director, World Expo on 1 September 2022
Ms Serene Tan was appointed Regional Director, North Asia on 1 September 2022

--- PAGE 29 ---

Singapore Tourism Board
Annual Report 2021/2022
RECOVER
As countries cautiously reopened their borders
and international travel restarted, Singapore’s
tourism sector saw upward trends in visitor
arrivals and tourism expenditure, indicating
that recovery was finally on the way.
29

--- PAGE 30 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 30
Tourism Sector
Performance 2021
Overview
In 2021, the aftereffects of the pandemic
were reflected on the tourism sector,
which recorded a decline in both Tourism
Receipts (TR) and International Visitor
Arrivals (IVA). TR was recorded at S$1.89
27.7
billion, having fallen by 60.79% compared 26.8 26.9
to the previous year. Amid the challenges
presented by COVID-19, IVA also decreased
by 88% to 329.99 thousand visitors in 2021.
19.1
18.5
17.4
4.8
2.7
1.89 329.99k

--- PAGE 31 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 31
Tourism Receipts By
Major Components
An overall decline of 60.79% was recorded
from the previous year, as there was a fall in
tourism receipts across all major components:
Shopping (-75%), Accommodation (-43%),
F&B (-57.6%), SEG (-75%) and Other TR
Components (-57.4%).
Shopping Accommodation Food Sightseeing, Other TR Components
& Beverage Entertainment
(F&B) & Gaming
(SEG)
% change vs
-75.1% -43.2% -57.6% -76.5% -57.4%
2020
% Share 9% 31% 10% 12% 38%
Tourism
Receipts 174.42 580.44 192.46 223.26 723.05
(S$Mil)

--- PAGE 32 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 32
Tourism Receipts By
Major Components
Top 10 Markets
% Change vs 2020
2021 TR Food Other TR Tourism Visitor
For 2021, tourism receipts were recorded (S$Mil) Shopping Accomodation & Beverage Components Receipts Arrivals
at an estimated S$1.89 billion, with the Overall 1890 9.21% 30.65% 10.16% 38.18% -60.79% -88.0%
top 3 markets comprising Mainland China
(S$536.9 million), Indonesia (S$189.9
million), and India (S$94.74 million). China 536.9 16% 44% 7% 33% -13.97% -75.3%
These 3 markets accounted for 43.57%
of Tourism Receipts (not including
Indonesia 189.9 12% 11% 5% 72% -66.18% -92.7%
Sightseeing, Entertainment and Gaming).
India 94.74 7% 21% 15% 58% -67.42% -69.0%
USA 72.07 6% 31% 13% 50% -51.58% -91.1%
Malaysia 68.47 8% 40% 13% 39% -49.11% -84.2%
Australia 51.69 8% 49% 13% 31% -78.03% -95.1%
Hong Kong
46.12 11% 57% 16% 16% -50.22% -90.8%
SAR
South Korea 41.95 11% 38% 16% 35% -61.00% -92.0%
Vietnam 39.63 9% 27% 15% 49% -70.31% -95.4%
Japan 38.3 4% 49% 24% 24% -78.51% -95.3%

--- PAGE 33 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 33
Calendar of Events
April 2021
Wildlife Quest
with Detective Blue
ONE Esports Dota 2 HSBC Women's World Tropical Montane
Singapore Major Championship Orchidetum @
presented by PGL (HWWC) 2021 National Orchid Garden
The first major of the 2021 Dota Pro Recognised as one of the premier golf The first digital Augmented Reality A newly launched section within the
Circuit season, the Singapore Major events in Asia with the world’s top 66 (AR) gamification initiative in Jurong National Orchid Gardens, the Tropical
was Dota's first offline event since the female golfers, the HWWC marks the Bird Park – Wildlife Quest with Montane Orchidetum simulates the
pandemic, with 18 international teams return of professional women’s golf to Detective Blue – was rolled out for the experience of ascending through a
competing in Singapore. Singapore and Asia after a one-year school holidays from March to June. tropical montane forest, and showcases
hiatus due to COVID-19. Participants could see AR birds before a diversity of orchids and other plants
meeting the real birds in the aviaries, from the rich low to high-elevation
amplifying guest enjoyment. montane forest.

--- PAGE 34 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 34
Calendar of Events
Launch of immersive
virtual experience by Dale Chihuly:
Raffles Hotel Singapore ONE Championship Cahaya Ramadan Glass in Bloom
Raffles Hotel Singapore, in collaboration ONE Championship is a series of Cahaya Ramadan was the first Hari This was the first major glass artist
with Double Confirm Productions and year-long MMA events held 'live' Raya light up in Kampong Gelam show in Asia featuring glass artist
Sight Lines Entertainment, launched a in Singapore from April 2021 and since 2008, and featured the first Dale Chihuly’s artworks, delivering
first-of-its-kind virtual play, set against broadcast globally to over 150 light projection mapping show on a reinvented and reimagined
the backdrop of the iconic hotel where countries, with an average broadcast the Sultan Mosque. One Kampong iconic Gardens by the Bay. This
guests took part in an interactive reach of 23M per event. It is organised Gelam (OKG) also organised a hybrid included large-scale works, such as
treasure hunt that combined virtual and by local company Group ONE Holdings series of programmes including the Ethereal White Persian Pond,
physical gameplay during their stay. Pte Ltd, which is the 4th largest global physical tours, cooking classes, craft 2018 and Setting Sun, 2020, some
sports property in the world. workshops and virtual content. The measuring up to 10m in height and
event attracted over 120,000 physical weighing as much as 3,600 kg.
attendees and virtual viewers.

--- PAGE 35 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 35
Calendar of Events
May 2021
50th St. Gallen
Symposium 2021
Reopening of Changi 2021 Free Fire Singapore International
Chapel and Museum World Series Festival of Arts (SIFA)
The St. Gallen Symposium held its The Changi Chapel and Museum For the first time, the World Series In its 44th edition, SIFA offered over
first ever in-person event in Singapore reopened with new content and of the highly popular battle royale 300 performances and 60 shows in
over two days as it celebrated its 50th artefacts in an intimate and engaging mobile game was held as a closed-door both physical and virtual formats.
anniversary. Traditionally held in format to tell the story of the prisoners tournament at the Marina Bay Sands. International and local arts practitioners
Switzerland, the annual event chose of war (POWs) and civilians interned According to Esports Charts, the 2021 such as New York-based SITI Company
Singapore as its global hub, broadcasting in Changi prison camp during the Free Fire World Series (FFWS) set a new and Singapore's theatre troupe, Nine
live plenary sessions through its hybrid Japanese Occupation. As part of viewership record for a mobile esports Years Theatre, collaborated to breathe
approach that gave entrants the the revamp, the National Museum tournament, hitting a peak of 5.4 million new life to Anton Chekhov's "Three
opportunity to meet in person, while of Singapore collected stories and concurrent viewers, excluding Chinese Sisters". Another notable collaboration
participating in digital sessions. personal objects from families of platforms. was between Singapore Dance Theatre,
former internees that emphasised Singapore Symphony Orchestra and
their personal experiences. American dancer-choreographer Pam
Tanowitz on "Rhythm of US".

--- PAGE 36 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 36
Calendar of Events
June 2021
Art Encounters –
Natalia Tan: Bride Always Knocks Da Vinci, The Exhibition
Into Softer Worlds Twice – Killer Secrets at the Singapore Science Centre
Art Encounters, a partnership between Theatre Practice collaborated with
STB and Art Outreach, featured a Hotel Soloha to launch an interactive
carousel of four artists within shipping multi-platform murder mystery
containers repurposed into mobile production. In partnership with
art spaces at key lifestyle and cultural Chinatown stakeholders, the project
precincts. From May to June 2021, was the first in Singapore to offer
the art containers at Marina Central a digital theatre performance and
allowed the public to join textile artist physical experiences such as crime
Natalia Tan in a pop-up experiential scene investigation and teatime
free-weaving studio. sessions. Tickets were bundled with
Hotel Soloha’s rooms as a staycation
Da Vinci, The Exhibition showcased Audiences had an opportunity to
package. The virtual experience
the largest collection of Da Vinci’s engage in hands-on activities and snap
exceeded targets by over 40%,
inventions in Southeast Asia, with 50 photos with reconstructed replicas of
generating significant media coverage.
life-size replicas and 15 reproductions his renowned paintings such as "Mona
of his fine-art studies. The exhibition Lisa", "The Last Supper" and the
offered a tribute to the Renaissance Golden Ratio in his iconic works of art
master and his relentless pursuit including the “Vitruvian Man”.
of knowledge across the fields of
Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics (STEM) and Art, including
anatomy, engineering, physics,
hydraulics and music.

--- PAGE 37 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 37
Calendar of Events
July 2021
Rainforest Lumina
Season 3
OH! Stories:
Hall of Fame SMF x IBTM Wired New World's End
The Hall of Fame @ Kampong Gelam The Singapore MICE Forum (SMF)
Set in Little India’s Jalan Besar zone,
is Southeast Asia’s first official graffiti x IBTM was a partnership between
OH! New World's End is a self-guided
Hall of Fame - a popular street art term IBTM, as a part of Reed Exhibitions and
immersive street theatre audio tour that
that refers to a place with several walls Singapore Association for Convention
marries stories, history, art and culture.
where artists can paint freely. It features & Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers
A 45 to 60 minute illuminated immersive An authentic story of the precinct is
works from 17 Singapore-based artists (SACEOS). Signalling Singapore’s
night walk experience at the Singapore told through artwork, audio and tactile
over a 230-metre stretch along Bali importance as a MICE destination
Zoo, Rainforest Lumina maximised elements, offering a different take on
Lane and Ophir Road. The Hall of Fame as the chosen host for the event,
the use of space at the Singapore Zoo conventional guided tours.
also includes a collaboration between Reed Exhibitions’ 4-day virtual event
after its usual operating hours. New
Singaporean artist Zero and Indonesian attracted global MICE industry players.
programmes introduced for the third
artist Stereoflow – half of the mural
season of the event included fringe
was painted at the Hall of Fame and the
events and workshops, as well as
other half in Jakarta.
activities focused on local milestone
events such as the Mid-Autumn Festival.

--- PAGE 38 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 38
Calendar of Events
August 2021
Singapore Food Singapore Vegan
Festival 2021 Festival 2021
The Front Row
The Front Row (TFR) was supported
by STB to present new, hybrid ways of
increasing brands’ online presence,
engage shoppers virtually and catalyse
differentiated shopping experiences. Achieved 2 million
This was explored through formats video views across
such as Augmented Reality, 3D set different channels
mapping and virtual models.
Launched in August 2021, TFR held 22
Singapore Food Festival 2021 (SFF 2021)
fashion shows and 9 talks, as well as 4
was held in a hybrid format for the first
photography and arts exhibitions. The
time in its 28-year history.
event achieved 2 million video views
STB worked with partner agencies–
across different channels. The Front Row made history
Enterprise Singapore (ESG), Singapore
as Singapore’s first virtual
Food Agency (SFA), National
fashion festival
Environment Agency (NEA), to curate
the programmes while 11 STB regional
offices activated the festival in-market. A 10-day festival boasting a series
of activities catered to the vegan
SFF 2021 brought together 80 industry
movement, the Singapore Vegan Festival
partners including F&B enterprises, tour
2021 raised awareness for veganism
operators, hotels, and malls, attracting
through masterclasses, talks, dining
over 1.5 million unique viewers and
collaborations and a marketplace.
2,600 physical attendees.

--- PAGE 39 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 39
Calendar of Events
Energy Story Art Encounters -
Chloë Manasseh:
My Community Festival Petals Fall, Now and Then
Organised by local non-profit organisation Art Encounters travelled to Bugis from
My Community, the ground-up phygital August to October 2021, with containers
festival, focused on local culture and featuring multi-sensorial works by artist
heritage and comprised of physical Chloë Manasseh. Visitors were able
and virtual talks, workshops, tours and to observe the creation of the artist's
activations. It took place at various works through live painting in one of
locations island-wide including cultural its containers, inspired by Singapore's
precincts and heartlands. historical Bugis seafarers and Chloë
Manasseh's creative vision.
Jointly presented by Science Centre The permanent exhibition features
Singapore, the Energy Market six zones of multimedia displays and
Authority and SP Group, the Energy interactive activities, where visitors can
Story exhibition captures the story of learn about the sources, transformation
how humankind has progressed off and uses of energy, from natural cycles to
the back of energy discovery, and must modern applications.
now work towards a cleaner, more
sustainable future.

--- PAGE 40 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 40
Calendar of Events
September 2021
Opening of Halloween Horror
Klook secret suppers
MICHELIN Guide 2021 Oasia Resort Sentosa Nights Exhibition
STB collaborated with Klook for a
The MICHELIN Guide 2021 revealed the Far East Hospitality launched Oasia The first-ever Universal Studios
series of precinct Secret Suppers,
year’s starred restaurants in Singapore, Resort Sentosa, its first foray into Singapore Halloween Horror Nights
where consumers purchased tickets
including Zén, a new three-starred the resort and spa category to cater Exhibition showcased some of the
to a mystery dining experience. The
restaurant. to the growing trend of wellness most sought-after creepy zones and
restaurant's identity is only revealed
conscious travellers. The 191-key haunted houses, terrifying props,
after booking, and the specially curated
wellness resort, together with Asian- and gruesome facts from the past
menu upon seating. In collaboration with
inspired spa offerings by Oasia Spa, nine years of Southeast Asia’s award-
the Singapore Food Festival 2021, 20
presents guests with a signature winning Halloween Horror Nights.
restaurants across four cultural precincts
Oasia wellness experience, through
were onboarded for this initiative.
a variety of thoughtful amenities and
holistic programmes.

--- PAGE 41 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 41
Calendar of Events
Ecosperity Week
Mid-Autumn
Festival Celebrations
The Annual Mid-Autumn Celebrations
held in Chinatown featured an
overhead street lantern light-up,
physical and virtual workshops, tours
and social media competitions that
were themed around the customs and
traditions of the festival.
Image credits: Temasek
A blend of “ecology” and “prosperity”, Presented by Temasek, the conference
the Ecosperity Week is an annual aimed to push the frontiers of
confluence of sustainability-themed sustainable growth by exploring the
events bringing together global latest megatrends in the sustainability
business leaders, policy-makers, sphere, to explore how growth can
investors, civil society, and community thrive in a sustainable fashion. Key
leaders worldwide to deep dive into issues that were tabled at the 2021 event
sustainable development. included opportunities in the areas of
decarbonisation and climate action,
reimagining nature and resources, and
sustainable investing and financing.

--- PAGE 42 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 42
Calendar of Events
October 2021
Joint Leadership Summit
UNTAME (JLS)
gamescom asia Asia Clean Energy Summit
gamescom asia is the Asian edition Asia’s leading event focusing on clean
of gamescom, the world’s largest energy technology, policy and finance,
computer and video games festival Asia Clean Energy Summit (ACES) was
and the premier platform for Southeast supported by leading government
Asian game developers to explore agencies, research institutes and
partnerships and expand their industry partners in Singapore, and
Image credits: Singapore Association of Convention audiences globally. organised by the Sustainable Energy
The annual blockbuster and Science & Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers (SACEOS)
Association of Singapore.
Centre Singapore’s flagship event, Jointly organised by the Association gamescom asia 2021 took on a hybrid
UNTAME featured immersive and of Event Organisers (AEO), format, with physical events that ACES provided a common platform for
blended experiences through a series Society of Independent Show Organizers were held at Suntec Singapore. It was regional thought leaders in both the
of phased initiatives, primed to fuel the (SISO), UFI (The Global Association of organised by Koelnmesse Singapore public and private sector to collaborate
discovery of the Science, Technology, the Exhibition Industry), and Singapore and supported by the Association for on critical issues and opportunities in
Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Association of Convention & Exhibition the German Games Industry, game. harnessing clean energy for the future.
sectors and how they interact with the Organisers & Suppliers (SACEOS),
arts and humanities. the Joint Leadership Summit (JLS)
gathered global exhibition associations,
professional exhibition organisers
(PEOs) and regional leaders to discuss
and reinvigorate the region’s business
events industry and reboot inter- and
intra-regional business travel.

--- PAGE 43 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 43
Calendar of Events
November 2021
“
8th Milken Institute
I’m proud to say that the Milken
Asia Summit 2021 Institute has hosted this event
(Milken Institute Asia Summit)
iQiyi's “The Ferryman:
for 8 years now, and we actually
Legends of Nanyang”
did it all throughout the
Hell’s Museum partnership
pandemic…
Launched on 29 October 2021, the A first of its kind for the cultural The Milken Institute remains
Hell’s Museum at Haw Par Villa provides precincts, this partnership with iQiyi
fully committed to Singapore.
visitors with a deeper understanding of leveraged intellectual property rights of
”
commonalities across the world’s major a drama series, “The Ferryman: Legends Image credits: Milken Institute
Laura Deal Lacey,
belief systems and how communities of Nanyang”, to develop a three-part The 8th Milken Institute Asia Summit
Executive Director of the
draw meaning from death. Visitors precinct experience. The collaboration gathered global leaders, both in-
Milken Institute Asia Center.
can discover the cultural, religious, created awareness through Tik Tok person and online, to amplify ideas
philosophical and artistic significance filters featuring the drama characters and create more equitable, inclusive
The use of a holographic projection
of the famous Ten Courts of Hell within against precinct backdrops, driving societies. Held at the Sands Expo
for a live opening plenary highlighted
the park. interest and visitorship through “The & Convention Centre, the hybrid
the readiness and possibilities of what
Ferryman” murals and pop art sited summit welcomed 350 in-person
Singapore could offer to facilitate
in the precincts, and encouraging participants from 12 different
meaningful business dialogues through
additional visitation through tours countries, with 99 speakers across
advanced technology. Milken has
with storylines based on the drama’s 18 in-person and 11 virtual sessions.
held its flagship annual Asia Summit
characters. The filters achieved more
in Singapore since 2014, and will be
than 12 million impressions. The
hosting its 9th edition this year,
precinct tours were subsequently
from 28 to 30 September 2022.
converted into evergreen products
available for booking post partnership.

--- PAGE 44 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 44
Calendar of Events
East Asian Flyway
STB-NAC Performing Arts (Introduction to Birdwatching)
JJ Lin “After the Rain”
Tours Pilot Grant Project by The Untamed Paths
A Charity Live Special
Marina Bay Sands collaborated with
renowned singer JJ Lin to stage a two-
day performance, After the Rain, to
help raise funds for Community Chest.
The event was also the superstar’s first
in-person concert in two years since the
COVID-19 pandemic began.
Somewhere in Time – A Journey
Through Tanjong Pagar
by STGS Tours and Theatre Today
The Society of Tourist Guides Image credits: The Untamed Paths
(Singapore) (STGS Tours) and Theatre
An exclusive programme teaching participants how to
Today collaborated to launch an
identify local avian fauna based on morphology and their
interactive walking tour that invited
unique calls, the East Asian Flyway tour acquainted entrants
visitors to step back in time and relive
with some of Singapore’s avian cohabitants. They also learnt
the transformation of the historic
the ropes involved with ‘birding’, such as how to effectively
Tanjong Pagar district.
spot and identify common birds.

--- PAGE 45 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 45
Calendar of Events
STB-SDC Sentosa
Signature Series Snow City’s Ice Hotel Deepavali
(Sentosights) Gallery Experience Celebrations 2021
Stretching across a 17-metre snow field, Little India Shopkeepers & Heritage
Snow City’s Ice Hotel Gallery Experience Association (LISHA) continued
boasted five thematic ice and snow to organise the annual Deepavali
art installation zones finely crafted by Celebrations 2021 with the traditional
Singapore’s renowned ice sculptor veteran street light-up of Serangoon Road and
Jeffrey Ng. Race Course Road. The celebration was
complemented by a series of hybrid
Constructed from 320 blocks of ice, Snow
programmes to connect with both local
City's Ice Hotel Gallery took 800 man-hours
and international audiences. These
to complete. Certified as “Singapore’s First
included virtual masterclasses and
Ice Hotel Experience” by the Singapore
performances, a flower art installation
Book of Records, visitors journeyed through
Image credits: The Untamed Paths on Clive Street, an on-site treasure hunt,
this ice and snow art gallery to experience
a talk show by local celebrities and even
Sentosa Intertidal Explorations a “daycation” in the gallery’s amenities
a Tik Tok dance challenge.
by The Untamed Paths that featured sculptures of prominent
For this trail, the Untamed Paths travelled off the mainland. historical icons such as the Victoria Concert
Participants explored avian cohabitants, and learned how to Hall façade, Sir Stamford Raffles and the
spot and identify birds found on Sentosa. They also learned legendary Sang Nila Utama.
how to identify local fauna based on their unique calls,
while embarking on a trail that brought them through tall
rainforest trees and skirting the coastline.

--- PAGE 46 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 46
Calendar of Events
Art Encounters -
Ripple Root: Reopening of Zoo-rassic Park:
KAWS:HOLIDAY Where Land Meets Sea MINT Museum of Toys Brickosaurs World
KAWS:HOLIDAY made its seventh Art Encounters was activated at
global stop in Singapore's Marina Kampong Gelam's Malay Heritage
Bay Floating Platform. It featured Centre's from November to
a 42m-long sculpture of American December 2021. This edition featured
artist Brian Donnelly's signature Singaporean artists duo, Ripple Root,
character, Companion, in a reclined made up of Liquan Liew and Estella Ng.
position, embracing a smaller version The installation, Where Land Meets Sea,
of itself. This installation was the first stemmed from the concept of "tanah
Image credits: MINT Museum of Toys
in Southeast Asia and the first public air” that translated to "homeland"
Following the museum’s first major
work by KAWS in Singapore. in Malay - exploring the ontology of
renovation since its opening in 2007,
Kampong Gelam's material and visual
the MINT Museum of Toys reopened,
culture of its 19th century port, its
Image credits: Mandai Wildlife Reserve
featuring an extensive revamp to all 7
communities and seafarers. Featuring over 60 dinosaur structures
levels of the contemporary building,
that used more than 1.66 million
alongside newly curated
bricks, Zoo-rassic Park: Brickosaurs
displays of toy collections.
World at the Singapore Zoo was a first
in Asia, including a 3.56-meter-tall
T-rex constructed from 135,000 bricks.
Life-sized dinosaurs were displayed
in “Build Your Dino Adventure”,
which enabled visitors to learn
about dinosaurs’ abilities and how
they adapted to survive during the
prehistoric era.

--- PAGE 47 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 47
Calendar of Events
Pop-Up Disney! Bloomberg New
“
A Mickey Celebration Economy Forum (NEF)
This has been one of the most
dynamic and innovative
countries in the world and this
event wouldn’t have happened
without the close cooperation
and partnership with the Prime
Minister and his team.
”
Image credits: Kingsmen Exhibits Image credits: Bloomberg
Pop-Up Disney! A Mickey Celebration The Bloomberg New Economy Forum Michael R. Bloomberg,
was a tribute to Mickey Mouse. (NEF) is an annual forum that gathers Founder of Bloomberg LP and
Originally from the Downtown Disney global leaders to dialogue on the future Bloomberg Philanthropies and
three-term Mayor of the City of
District at Disneyland Resort in global economy. Following the inaugural
New York.
Anaheim, California, this exhibition NEF in November 2018 in Singapore, the
made its way to Asia for the first time. fourth edition in 2021 gathered over 300 This edition was especially significant,
Visitors got the chance to explore leading global CEOs, current and former as the event took place during the
seven different imaginatively themed Government leaders, and thought COVID-19 pandemic. Widely covered
experiences with a one-of-a-kind leaders and experts, to discuss solutions by local and international media, the
“Mickey Loves Singapore: Dreamland to address pertinent global issues in forum affirmed Singapore’s status as
Carnival” room that celebrated all finance, trade, climate change, cities a leading business hub and supported
things Singaporean, created by and health. business development efforts of
homegrown artist WhenIWasFour.
participating local companies.

--- PAGE 48 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 48
Calendar of Events
Singapore International Industrial Transformation
Agrifood Week (SIAW) Asia Pacific (ITAP)
Inaugurated in 2021, Singapore The umbrella week featured a series of
International Agri-Food Week (SIAW) business and consumer events including
is a global platform which gathers the “Asia-Pacific Agri-Food Innovation
stakeholders from the global agri- Summit” by Rethink Events, the “Agri-
food industry to share best practices, Food Tech Asia Expo” by Constellar
showcase the latest technologies Exhibition, and the Regulator’s
and leverage business opportunities. Roundtable by SFA.
It was organised by Temasek in
Image credits: Constellar
partnership with government
ITAP is a strategic trade exhibition The exhibition was supported by EDB,
agencies EDB, ESG, SFA, STB and
focusing on the applications of Industry ESG, Agency for Science, Technology
event organisers, Rethink Events
4.0 technologies and solutions to and Research (A*STAR) and Jurong Town
and Constellar Exhibitions.
transform the manufacturing sector as Corporation (JTC), and plays a pivotal
well as industries across the value chain. role in Singapore’s vision to become a
Organised by Constellar Exhibitions, global advanced manufacturing hub.
in partnership with leading German
professional event organiser Deutsche
Messe, the event was customised for the
Asian market and was an adaptation
of Hannover Messe, the world’s largest
industrial technology event.

--- PAGE 49 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 49
Calendar of Events
Singapore Fintech Festival x Singapore Week of
Innovation and Technology (SFF x SWITCH)
Cafe Asia / Restaurant Architecture & Building
Asia 2021 (CARA) Services 2021 (ABS)
Image credits: Elevandi and Constellar Exhibitions
Organised by the Monetary Authority For its 2021 edition, SFF partnered with CARA is a one-stop sourcing platform ABS 2021 comprised 7 exhibitions
of Singapore and Elevandi, the SWITCH to deliver a five-day hybrid for café and restaurant F&B supplies, and 10 conferences across the
Singapore FinTech Festival (SFF) event based on the theme of Web 3.0 equipment, and technology. Supported architecture, lighting, facilities
is the flagship event of the local and its impact on financial services. by the Restaurant Association Singapore management and safety and
FinTech community and one of the The event focused on a decentralised (RAS), the event gave professionals from security sectors. ABS 2021 also
largest FinTech events in Asia Pacific. model of finance, investment flows for those industries the opportunity to gain featured the inaugural Design Asia
The event connects innovators, sustainable finance and the technology valuable insights on the latest café and 2021, supported by the Singapore
investors, entrepreneurs and stack of Web 3.0, such as blockchain, AI, restaurant trends, as well as to learn Furniture Industries Council, Society
regulators from around the world, IoT and 5G. more about innovative products and of Interior Designers Singapore,
catalysing new ways to imagine services gaining traction in the region Singapore Manufacturing
a more financially inclusive and and beyond. Federation, and Singapore Institute
sustainable world from the heart of of Landscape Architects.
FinTech innovation in Asia.

--- PAGE 50 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 50
Calendar of Events
December 2021
STB-NAC Performing Arts
Tours Pilot Grant Project
Mobile Legends
Wild Rift Horizon Cup
Bang Bang M3 Singapore International
World Championship Jewellery Expo (SIJE)
The League of Legends: Wild Rift Horizon
Cup 2021 was the first ever global
After successfully staging a closed SIJE is an annual, international
tournament for Wild Rift. The crowning
door M2 earlier in January 2021, jewellery, gems, and luxury
event of Wild Rift featured 10 teams from
MLBB action returned to Singapore in timepieces tradeshow. Supported by
the regional qualifiers of Southeast Asia,
December 2021. Larger than ever, M3 the Singapore Jewellers Association Image credits: Let's Go Tour Singapore
China, Europe, North America, Korea,
saw the prize pool more than double (SJA), the 2021 event featured both
Japan, LATAM, and Brazil regions. Voices: Memories of Kampong Lorong
M2's to USD800k, and an increase physical and digital elements to cater Buangkok by Let’s Go Tour Singapore
of 4 teams to feature 16 competing to local and overseas buyers. and GroundZ-0
teams. The matches on the last three Tour operator Let’s Go Tour
days of the tournament were opened Singapore and arts company
to a sold-out crowd, the first and only GroundZ-0 came together to create
esports event in Singapore during the a new tour-production, Voices:
pandemic to welcome live audiences. Memories of Kampong Lorong
Buangkok. Held at Singapore’s last
remaining village, Kampong Lorong
Buangkok, this multidisciplinary
theatrical performance is the first
cross-industry foray for both parties.

--- PAGE 51 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 51
Calendar of Events
The Clocktower Climb
Nam June Paik:
@ Victoria Theatre and JSSL Singapore
The Future Is Now
Concert Hall JeweLuxe International 7's 2021
Developed in collaboration with Tate
The Clocktower Climb gave the public With the growing high-yield luxury The JSSL Singapore International 7’s
Modern and Museum of Modern Art
an exclusive guided walking tour at segments, and the opportunity to (JSSL 7s) is Asia’s largest youth football
(MoMA, San Francisco), this exhibition
Victoria Theatre and Concert Hall with position Singapore as a regional 7-a-side tournament organised for
presented a travelling retrospective of
an opportunity to capture a bird’s eye jewellery and watches (J&W) hub, STB club-based young amateurs. It was first
seminal video artist Nam June Paik.
view of the historic Civic District by continued to support JeweLuxe, an organised in 2013 with 60 participating
National Gallery was the sole Asian
scaling the 54-metre Clock Tower. annual home-grown event featuring teams and has since seen tremendous
venue in the tour.
local and international, independent growth to reach 416 participating teams
brands. JeweLuxe encompassed in 2019, of which 237 were international
experiential showcases of curated teams. It is unique in the participation
J&W brands in trunk show-type of Professional Academies from top
formats to a physical audience, and European clubs such as Liverpool FC
engaged audiences overseas through and Manchester United FC.
the livestreaming of red-carpet
events and broadcast of online video
interviews with industry experts.

--- PAGE 52 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 52
Calendar of Events
Smart Nation PlayScape
Standard Chartered
Singapore Marathon
SingaCup 2021 (SCSM)
SingaCup is the largest and fastest The Standard Chartered Singapore
growing 11-a-side international youth Marathon (SCSM) has established
football tournament in Southeast Asia. itself as the marquee running event on
It is an annual football tournament Singapore’s sporting calendar. The 2021
Jointly developed by the Smart The exhibition consisted of eight organised by Dynamique Konzepts edition marked the return of in-person
Nation and Digital Government technology zones, and through a series Pte Ltd (DK) since 2011 and has grown mass participation running events,
Group (SNDGG), GovTech and Science of gamified exhibits and multimedia from 12 teams to 140 teams in 2019. with up to 4,000 runners flagged off in
Centre Singapore, the Smart Nation elements, each zone provided an More than 70% of participating teams waves. Safe management measures
PlayScape exhibition sought to in-depth yet easy to understand in 2019 were international participants. were in place to ensure the safety of
demystify technology and inspire explanation on how the technology DK plans to grow the event in scale, participants.
Singaporeans to be curious about came about, how it works, and its complemented by an upscaling of the
future technologies through a series importance to Singapore today. event experience, for the tournament to
of fun and immersive interactives. continue building its strong foothold in
Southeast Asia.

--- PAGE 53 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 53
Calendar of Events
Christmas on
Singapore Floorball Open Global Esports Games A Great Street Christmas Wonderland
One of the largest floorball The Global Esports Games was the A signature annual tradition of Orchard
tournaments in Asia, the SG inaugural edition of the Global Esports Road, Christmas on A Great Street
Floorball Open attracts regional and Federation’s premier flagship event. 2021 featured the precinct’s first
international teams. After its first Dubbed the Olympics of esports, the outdoor light projection mapping
virtual event in 2020, the SG Floorball event was a celebration of esports, show on a major building façade,
Open returned in September 2021 as virtual sports, music and entertainment, complemented with augmented reality
a hybrid event and in December the featuring teams from across the world (AR) enhancements to enliven street-
same year as a physical tournament. participating in multi-title esports level experience. Virtual experiences as
Image credits: Blue Sky Events Pte Ltd
The virtual event, with programming competitions and active esports. part of the event also engaged overseas
An annual year-end highlight,
such as an online digital coaching audiences and helped to retain top-of-
Christmas Wonderland 2021 featured
conference, digital training camp and mind awareness for Singapore.
a festive carnival, a European-style
a 'behind the scenes' series, helped
Christmas Market, and a host of
drive support and sign-ups for the
awe-inspiring light displays including
2022 edition.
a stunning Spalliera display — an
Italian-made marvel which soared
seven storeys tall, evoking the beauty
of Europe’s Gothic churches — as well
as the Enchanted Bridge, a magical
30-metre structure illuminated by
100,000 LED lights.

--- PAGE 54 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 54
Calendar of Events
January 2022
STB-NAC Performing Arts
Tours Pilot Grant Project
“It’s Showtime!” Premium
Experience at Universal
SHA 60th Anniversary Studios Singapore Singapore Art Week 2022
The Singapore Hotel Association (SHA) “It’s Showtime” treated guests Precincts and neighbourhoods were
commemorated its 60th anniversary to exclusive after-hours access at activated with more than 130 events
with the milestone SHA 60th Universal Studios Singapore, featuring in this edition of SAW which offered
Anniversary Event on 17 December a “pub-crawl” dining experience new art experiences in unexpected
2021. Themed ‘Our People, the Heart complemented with short live and everyday spaces. Highlights
of Hospitality’, and graced by Guest- performances and a special parade of included the exhibitions by Singapore
of-Honour Mr Gan Kim Yong, Minister Universal Studios Singapore’s favourite Art Museum and SEA Focus at Tanjong
for Trade and Industry, the dinner mascot characters. Pagar Distripark, Light to Night Festival
event included a panel discussion by and Porsche’s “The Art of Dreams”
Image credits: Patch and Punnet, Strawberries Inc.
industry leaders, presentation of SHA’s initiative featuring Cyril Lancelin at The
and ROTOTORO
Distinguished Leader Awards, and a Promontory.
The Secret Life of Haw Par Villa by
keynote speech. Strawberries Inc and Journeys
A collaboration between arts company
Strawberries Inc and tour operator
Journeys, The Secret Life of Haw Par
Villa was an immersive walking tour
in Haw Par Villa, where participants
encountered the history, mythologies
and characters that lived amongst the
dioramas of the establishment.

--- PAGE 55 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 55
Calendar of Events
Art Encounters –
Art Around the City – Gerald Leow:
The Forest Institute Perpetual Motion WWF Tiger Trails ARTWALK 2022
A part of the Art Around the City Coinciding with Singapore Art Week Tiger Trails aimed to raise awareness A public art festival held in conjunction
initiative, the Forest Institute popped up 2022, this edition of Art Encounters saw of the pivotal roles played by tigers with Singapore Art Week, the 2022
at Gillman Barracks during Singapore art containers travel to Marina Bay Sands in climate change and protecting edition took place both virtually and
Art Week 2022. Encouraging visitors to Event Plaza from January to February biodiversity, with more than 30 life- physically over two weekends. Themed
consider their relationship with ecology, 2022. The installation featured kinetic sized tiger sculptures painted by local "Looking Back, Going Forward…",
the initiative featured a large-scale sculptures by Gerald Leow to represent a and international artists. These were the event extended the geographical
architectural art installation co-initiated natural state of renewal whilst imploring displayed across Singapore, including boundary of ARTWALK beyond Little
by Robert Zhao, Randy Chan and John visitors to consider the relationships and Chinatown during the Chinese New India to include Katong-Joo Chiat.
Tung, complemented with nature walks meanings humans give to things they Year Celebrations. Tiger Trails also Highlights included five new murals,
and opportunity for overnight stays in interact with. used technology to engage the public a series of storytelling and cultural
Gillman Barracks to observe nature. through quizzes and augmented performances and a specially curated
reality filters. Pokémon GO ARTWALK Trail. The
number of local businesses involved in
the festival increased from 11 in 2021 to
26 in 2022.

--- PAGE 56 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 56
Calendar of Events
Chinatown
Chinese New Year Opening of IHG’s PUBG Mobile
Celebrations voco Orchard Singapore Global Championship River Hongbao 2022
A major cultural highlight for the IHG Hotels & Resorts launched voco Featuring PUBG Mobile’s highest prize A phygital River Hongbao was held over
local Chinese community, the annual Orchard Singapore, voco’s first hotel in pool ever of USD3.49m, Singapore 8 days from 30 January to 6 February
Chinese New Year Celebrations in Southeast Asia and Korea. Celebrating played host to 6 out of the 16 final teams 2022 at Gardens by the Bay (GBTB).
Chinatown featured a visually impactful the individual heritage and spirit of after qualifying through their respective Besides the lantern set-piece displays,
overhead street lantern light-up. Apart each hotel, the 423-room property leagues. Broadcasted in 16 languages themed exhibition and amusement
from the iconic light-up, the festival offers localised guest touchpoints that globally, the tournament was a hybrid zone, there were also nightly themed
also comprised online and physical speak about the history of the Orchard event with some teams remaining in stage performances. The virtual
workshops, tours and social media Road area. their home countries to compete. programme attracted over 40,000 views,
competitions themed around the while the post-event virtual performance
festival’s customs and traditions. garnered over 280,000 views.

--- PAGE 57 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 57
Calendar of Events
February 2022
STB-NAC Performing Arts
Tours Pilot Grant Project
Singapore Airshow
Art Around the City –
The Neon Season The Gathering: 千岁宫
Held in February 2022, Art Around the The Gathering: 千岁宫, was curated by
City featured three events, including Singaporean curator and exhibition-
the Neon Season presented by maker John Z.W. Tung and conceived by
Hyphen BB. Held at Design Orchard, local artist Wong Lip Chin who sought
it showcased over 20 Singapore- to create an oasis within Kreta Ayer
Image credits: Experia Events Pte Ltd Image credits: DOIT.SG & Secretive Thing
based artists and designers to spark a Square with a participative artwork.
Singapore Airshow 2022 was Asia’s re:walk Telok Ayer by DOIT.SG
reimagination of Orchard Road's past It was accompanied by experiences
and Secretive Thing
largest aerospace and defence
and present. Complementing this that enabled the appreciation and
tradeshow, serving as the global A series of video-guided walking tours
activation was a partnership with the preservation of Chinese culture in
marketplace and networking by DOIT.SG and art collective Secretive
Textile and Fashion Federation (TaFF) to partnership with DECK.
powerhouse for the world’s aviation Thing, re:walk Telok Ayer brought
present exclusive fashion and lifestyle
leaders and players. The event, which audiences on a journey to uncover what
merchandise from collaborations
was then the largest MICE event to be it means to belong. The video tours were
between artists and local brands.
held since the start of the pandemic, guided by filmed performers, enabling
welcomed close to 13,000 participants audiences to rediscover Telok Ayer
and almost 600 participating through the intimate stories of locals.
companies from more than 39
countries and regions.

--- PAGE 58 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 58
Calendar of Events
STB-SDC Sentosa
Signature Series
(Sentosights)
Katong Dreaming:
The Rangoli Movement A Musical Tour by
Betel Box Asia and
The Rangoli Movement was
conceptualised by Texture Media and Stereoimage Studios
Visual Arts Centre, featuring a month-
long showcase in Little India that Presented by Betel Box Asia and
sought to rejuvenate and invigorate Stereoimage Studios, this tour
Image credits: Pudu Puda Image credits: The Untamed Paths
perspectives towards culture and transported participants back to
Serapong Trail by Pudu Puda Sentosa Immersive Rainforest Trails by
tradition. Visitors enjoyed a visual Katong in the 1950s, as the show The Untamed Paths
exhibition of artworks by Guinness guide brought them on a journey
Providing the first official hike in Introducing audiences to a lush
world-record breaking local Rangoli centred on the theme of homeliness
Sentosa that combines trekking and rainforest ecosystem in the heart of
artist Vijaya Mohan. and the Peranakan culture through
historical military ruins, Pudu Puda's Sentosa, Sentosa Immersive Rainforest
the use of immersive soundscapes,
Sentosa Signature Tour Series, Fort Trails enables participants to get a
and cross-disciplinary art forms.
Serapong Trail, is an one-of-a-kind tour first-hand experience with a tropical
experience. The tour encompasses the biotope amongst the tall rainforest
various brand values of Sentosa, such flora, as well as learn and discuss topics
as Island Soul, which reinforces the relevant to Singapore’s landscape and
island's unique historical heritage, and development as an island-city.
Island Discovery, where participants are
encouraged to find out the history and
heritage behind Fort Serapong.

--- PAGE 59 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 59
Calendar of Events
STB-SDC Sentosa
Signature Series
(Sentosights)
Letters from Blakang Mati by Woopa Travel Gourmet Island Escape by Woopa Travel
Woopa Travel brought learning to Gourmet Island Escapade is a food
life through a guided puzzle hunt and view-pairing experience, where
that gamified exploration as guests participants are treated to the unique
uncovered Fort Siloso with the help of a landscapes of Sentosa. From idyllic
dinosaur mascot. Guests also uncovered beaches to a panoramic fort, or a
letters written for wartime generals as sprawling golf course to ancient artillery
Image credits: The Untamed Paths they explored Fort Siloso. barracks, the experience combines
Sentosa Naturalist Night Adventure by gastronomic delights with unique
The Untamed Paths
interesting backdrops.
Sentosa Naturalist Night Adventure
Image credits: Tribe
lets participants experience a night
Escape from St John’s Island by Tribe
adventure that brings them through
Roleplaying in teams of five as
a rainforest system. Participants can
the daughter of a researcher amid
immerse themselves in the forest
the setting of a pandemic in 2029,
symphony, learn how to spot and
participants embark on a game tour
identify common amphibians and
and race against time to find a cure
nocturnal invertebrates, and peek into
and identify the mysteries of St. John’s
the secretive lives of nocturnal creatures
Island, where they are required to
with the help of a small torch.
decode a message and solve puzzles at
various stations in just 4 hours.

--- PAGE 60 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 60
Calendar of Events
March 2022
Magical Discovery Sentosa by Woopa Travel
On Sentosa’s first Magic tour Opening of Hilton HSBC Women's World Asia Pacific Maritime
to discover the wonders of the
Singapore Orchard Championship (HWWC) (APM)
island, participants can learn
about Sentosa’s connection to Hilton debuted its largest hotel in Asia The HSBC Women’s World APM 2022 is recognised as Asia’s
Singapore’s past, and how it remains Pacific, Hilton Singapore Orchard. The Championship (HWWC) is a prestigious premier international exhibition for
a memorable place for the young 1,080-room property features 2,4000 four-day golf tournament sanctioned by the region’s maritime community.
and old. Participants explored sqm of event facilities, and opened after the Ladies Professional Golf Association Held biennially, APM showcases the
lesser-known sites in Sentosa while an extensive $150 million renovation. (LPGA) that attracts the world’s top 66 latest in marine engineering and port
enjoying street magic performances female golfers to compete in Singapore. technology and connects quality
designed by local magician Mr Bottle Recognised as one of the premier golf Asia Pacific buyers to international
at Magical Discovery @ Sentosa. events in Asia, the HWWC marks the maritime suppliers through exhibition,
return of professional women’s golf to conferences, seminars and networking
Singapore and Asia after a one-year sessions. The 2022 event was
hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. supported by the Maritime and Port
Authority of Singapore (MPA), with
notable companies and associations
represented at the event that included
RINA, Intertanko and the Association of
Singapore Maritime Industries.

--- PAGE 61 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 61
Calendar of Events
Inaugural Hotel
Brickman® Sustainability Conference
Wonders Of The World & Marketplace
Augmented Reality
Experience @ Resorts
World Singapore –
S.E.A. Aquarium
Resorts World Sentosa S.E.A. Aquarium,
in collaboration with STB, launched an
engaging AR App – My Pocket S.E.A.A.
using immersive experience to drive
Featuring over 50 masterpieces of
awareness of wildlife conservation and
the world’s most iconic landmarks,
support public education efforts.
guests could travel the world with no
passport at Brickman® Wonders Of STB, together with the Singapore Hotels The roadmap also established 4 key
The World, LEGO® Brick Exhibition. Association (SHA) and ESG co-organised strategies to support the hotel industry.
Created by Ryan McNaught, the the Inaugural Hotel Sustainability The programme commenced with a
sole LEGO® Certified Professional Conference & Marketplace as the conference to discuss key challenges
in the Southern Hemisphere and first step to onboard hotels on their faced by hotels, and included a
one of only 22 in the world, the sustainability journey. A roadmap was marketplace to showcase vendors
global exhibition provided a fun and launched to introduce two targets for providing the latest sustainability
interactive experience entertaining hotels: 1) for 60% of hotel room stocks solutions.
both adults and kids. to achieve internationally-recognised
certification by 2025, and 2) commence
tracking of emissions by 2023, reduce
emissions by 2030 and to achieve net-
zero emissions by 2050.

--- PAGE 62 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 62
Calendar of Events
Out-of-this-world
digital experience
@ Grand Park City Hall
The first of its kind space themed
staycation, Grand Park City Hall’s AR
App, A Space Odyssey, developed in
partnership with STB, provided an
augmented reality experience for in-
house guests and their children. Users
could explore the Solar System in "Story
Mode" from the comfort of their hotel
rooms and discover more about each of
the eight planets or have fun creating
their own galaxy.

--- PAGE 63 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 63
Awards & Accolades
Cruise MICE Dining
Marina Bay Cruise Centre Best Business City in Asia Top 4 International World’s 50 Best
Singapore (MBCCS) and Best Business City in Meeting Cities 2021 Restaurants 2021
the World
International Congress and #8 Odette
Travel Weekly Asia Readers' Business Traveller Convention Association Global
#34 Burnt Ends
Choice Awards 2021: Asia-Pacific Awards 2021 Rankings 2021
Best Cruise Terminal
Top Asia-Pacific Best MICE Destination (Asia) Asia’s 50 Best
World Cruise Awards 2021:
Meeting City 2021 Restaurants 2021
Asia's Best Cruise Terminal
M&C Asia Stella Awards 2021
International Congress and #2 Odette
Convention Association
#13 Les Amis
Global Rankings 2021
#14 Burnt Ends
#23 Zén
#31 Cloudstreet
#40 Labyrinth
#41 Euphoria
#42 JAAN by Kirk Westaway

--- PAGE 64 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 64
Awards & Accolades
Asia’s 50 Best Restaurants 2021: Asia’s 50 Best Bars 2021 Asia’s 50 Best Bars 2021: 2021 World Gourmet Awards:
Flor de Cana Sustainable Disaronno Highest New Chef of the Year (Female)
Restaurant Award #2 Jigger & Pony Entry Award
#6 Manhattan Johanne Siy, Lolla
Labyrinth #8 No Sleep Club
#7 Atlas
#36 MO Bar 2021 World Gourmet Awards:
Asia’s 50 Best Restaurants 2021: #8 No Sleep Club
Chef of the Year (Male)
American Express One to Watch #14 Native Asia’s 50 Best Bars 2021:
Michter’s Art of Stephane Istel, Bar-Roque Grill
#21 28 HongKong Street
Meta
Hospitality Award
#29 Barbary Coast
2021 World Gourmet Awards:
World’s 50 Best Bars 2021 #36 Tippling Club MO Bar
Mixologist of the Year
#39 D.Bespoke
#9 Jigger & Pony
#42 The Old Man Remz Ocampo, The Spot
#15 Manhattan
#45 MO Bar
#16 Atlas
TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice
#49 Sago House
#26 No Sleep Club Awards 2021: Best Fine Dining
#36 MO Bar Restaurants
#43 Tippling Club
#24 Summer Pavilion (#4 in Asia)

--- PAGE 65 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 65
Awards & Accolades
Tatler Dining 20: Top 20 Best MICHELIN Guide Singapore
Restaurants in Singapore 2021: Three MICHELIN stars
Braci Meta Les Amis
Burnt Ends Mott 32 Singapore Odette
Candlenut Naeum Zén
Cloudstreet Nouri
MICHELIN Guide Singapore
Cure Odette
2021: Two MICHELIN stars
CUT by Wolfgang Puck Euphoria
Esquina Jag Jaan by Kirk Westaway
JAAN by Kirk Westaway Zén Saint Pierre
Labyrinth Saint Pierre Shisen Hanten
La Dame De Pic, Raffles Singapore Waku Ghin Shoukouwa
Waku Ghin

--- PAGE 66 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 66
Awards & Accolades
MICHELIN Guide Singapore
2021: One MICHELIN star
Alma Hill Street Tai Hwa Pork Noodle Shinji (Bras Basah Road)
Art Iggy's Shinji (Tanglin Road)
Basque Kitchen by Aitor Imperial Treasure Fine Teochew Sommer
Cuisine (Orchard)
Béni Summer Palace
Jag
Braci Summer Pavilion
Labyrinth
Buona Terra Sushi Ichi
Lei Garden
Burnt Ends Sushi Kimura
Lerouy
Candlenut Table65
Ma Cuisine
Chef Kang's Terra
Meta
Cloudstreet Thevar
Nouri
Corner House Whitegrass
Oshino
CUT by Wolfgang Puck 28 Wilkie
Putien (Kitchener Road)
Cure
Rhubarb
Esora
Shang Palace
Garibaldi

--- PAGE 67 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 67
Awards & Accolades
Hospitality
World Luxury Hotel TripAdvisor Travellers’
Awards 2021 Choice 2021 Best of the Best
World’s Most Saved Hotels:
Luxury Heritage Hotel: Top 25 Hotels — Singapore
#12 Marina Bay Sands
InterContinental Singapore
#1 Novotel Singapore on Stevens
World’s Most Picture
#2 Four Seasons Hotel Singapore
Conde Nast Traveler Perfect Hotels:
#3 One Farrer Hotel #22 Marina Bay Sands
Readers’ Choice Awards:
#4 AMOY Hotel
Top10 Hotels in Singapore
#5 Mandarin Oriental, Singapore
#1 Capella Singapore
#6 Oakwood Premier AMTD
#2 Shangri-La Hotel, Singapore
Singapore
#3 Mandarin Oriental, Singapore
#7 Conrad Centennial Singapore
#4 The Fullerton Hotel Singapore
#8 Oasia Hotel Novena
#5 Raffles Singapore
#9 The St. Regis Singapore
#6 The Fullerton Bay Hotel
#10 JEN Singapore Orchardgateway
Singapore
by Shangri-La
#7 Four Seasons Hotel Singapore
#8 Andaz Singapore
#9 Regent Singapore
#10 Marina Bay Sands

--- PAGE 68 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 68
Awards & Accolades
World Travel Awards 2021 Forbes Travel Guide’s 2021 Star Award
World’s Leading Singapore’s Leading 5-Star Recommended
Green City Hotel 2021– Conference Hotel 2021: Capella Singapore Goodwood Park Hotel
Asia’s Leading Green Hotel: Fairmont Singapore
The Fullerton Bay Hotel Singapore InterContinental Singapore
PARKROYAL COLLECTION Pickering
Singapore’s Leading Hotel 2021:
Mandarin Oriental Singapore Pan Pacific Singapore
World’s Leading Luxury Landmark Marina Bay Sands
W Singapore, Sentosa Cove
Hotel 2021:
Singapore’s Leading
Asia’s Leading Heritage Hotel 2021 4-Star
Hotel Residences 2021:
Raffles Singapore The Capitol Kempinski Hotel
Pan Pacific Serviced Suites Beach
Singapore
Singapore’s Leading Road
Luxury Hotel 2021: Conrad Centennial Singapore
Singapore’s Leading
Raffles Singapore
Hotel Suite 2021: Fairmont Singapore
Asia’s Leading Fully Integrated Presidential Suite @ Raffles
Four Seasons Hotel Singapore
Family Resort 2021: Singapore
The Fullerton Hotel Singapore
Resorts World Sentosa
Singapore’s Leading
Marina Bay Sands
Asia’s Leading Themed Hotel: Lifestyle Hotel 2021:
Hard Rock Hotel – InterContinental Singapore The Ritz-Carlton, Millenia Singapore
Resorts World Sentosa Robertson Quay
Shangri-La Hotel Singapore
Singapore’s Leading
Six Senses Duxton
City Hotel 2021:
The St. Regis Singapore
InterContinental Singapore

--- PAGE 69 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 69
Awards & Accolades
Travel + Leisure World’s Travel + Leisure World’s Expat Living Readers’
Best Awards 2021 Best Awards 2021 Choice Awards 2021
Top 100 Hotels in the World: Top 100 Hotels in the World: Best Hotel for Business in
The Fullerton Hotel Singapore The Fullerton Hotel Singapore Singapore - Silver:
Marina Bay Sands
Top 5 City Hotels Top 5 City Hotels in Singapore :
in Singapore : #1 The Fullerton Hotel Singapore
Travel Weekly Asia 2021
#1 The Fullerton Hotel Singapore
#2 The Ritz-Carlton, Millenia
Readers’ Choice Awards
#2 The Ritz-Carlton, Millenia Singapore
Singapore
#3 Capella Singapore Best Integrated Resort
#3 Capella Singapore (Asia Pacific)
#4 Raffles Singapore
#4 Raffles Singapore (3rd consecutive year):
#5 Mandarin Oriental, Singapore
Resorts World Sentosa
#5 Mandarin Oriental, Singapore
ASEAN Tourism Awards 2022
Best Integrated Resort
(Asia Pacific)
(3rd consecutive year):
Resorts World Sentosa

--- PAGE 70 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 70
Awards & Accolades
ASEAN Tourism Awards 2022
ASEAN Green Hotel #12 Grand Mercure Singapore Roxy #22 The Regent Singapore
Standard Award (2022- 2024):
#13 Holiday Inn Express Singapore #23 Shangri-La Hotel Singapore
#1 Furama City Centre, Singapore
Clarke Quay
#24 Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza
#2 Grand Park City Hall
#14 Holiday Inn Singapore Atrium Hotel
#3 Hotel Michael, Resorts World
#15 Jen Singapore Tanglin by Shangri- #25 Studio M Hotel
Sentosa
La (formerly known as “Hotel Jen
#4 Mandarin Oriental, Singapore Tanglin Singapore”)
#5 Swissôtel Merchant Court, #16 InterContinental Singapore
Singapore
#17 J W Marriott Singapore
#6 Carlton City Hotel Singapore South Beach
#7 Concorde Hotel Singapore #18 M Social Singapore
#8 Crowne Plaza Changi Airport #19 Pan Pacific Singapore
#9 Four Points by Sheraton #20 PARKROYAL COLLECTION
Singapore, Riverview Pickering, Singapore (formerly known
as “PARKROYAL on Pickering”)
#10 Furama RiverFront Singapore
#21 Ramada and Days Hotels
#11 Grand Copthorne Waterfront
by Wyndham Singapore
Singapore
At Zhongshan Park

--- PAGE 71 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 71
Awards & Accolades
Attractions Retail
World Travel Market (WTM) Retail Asia Awards 2021
World Responsible Tourism Honeycombers.com 2021 Food & Beverage Retailer
Awards 2021–Silver Award for of the Year – Singapore
Gold Award for Best Kid Friendly
Destinations Building Back Food Folks @ Lau Pa Sat
Museum in Singapore
Better Post-Covid Category:
Science Centre Singapore Marketing Interactive
Gardens by the Bay
Marketing Interactive
TripAdvisor Marketing Excellence Awards 2021:
PR Awards 2021
Excellence in Interactive Marketing
TripAdvisor 2021
Bronze Award for Best Event-led
VR & AR – Winner – Gold
Travelers’ Choice:
PR Campaign
The Front Row
Gardens by the Bay (Cloud
Science Centre Singapore and
Forest, Flower Dome, Supertree The Marketing Events Awards 2021:
AKA Asia for UNTAME
Grove, OCBC Skyway) Best Content Creation for a Virtual
ASEAN Tourism Awards 2022 | Event – Winner – Gold
National Orchid Garden
ASEAN Tourism Sustainability Award The Front Row
Singapore Flyer
(Urban Category)
The Marketing Events Awards 2021:
Flight Experience (2022-2024) Best Virtual Event – Winner – Gold
National Museum of Singapore Mandai Wildlife Group – Singapore Zoo The Front Row
and River Wonders
Adventure Cove Waterpark

--- PAGE 72 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 72
Awards & Accolades
Marketing
WAN IFRA’s Digital Asian Academy PR Awards Asia 2022 by
Media Awards 2021 Creative Awards Campaign and PRWeek
Best Native Advertising / Best adaptation of Silver award for Best Use of
Branded Content - Gold an existing format: Virtual Platforms – B2B
SingaporeRediscovers Campaign Best non-scripted entertainment Edelman Singapore Pte Ltd
with SPH’s ‘How To Not Waste
The Apprentice: ONE
Marketing-Interactive
Your Annual Leave’ Series:
Championship edition
SPH PR Awards 2022
Gold Award for Best COVID-19
Gong Awards 2021 Marketing Interactive
Related Campaign
PR Awards 2021
Film & Branded Content: Visual Bronze Award for
Effects - Silver Gold Award for Best Event-Led PR Best PR Campaign: B2B
Film & Branded Content: Art Campaign: Edelman Singapore Pte Ltd
Direction (Including Production Singapore Food Festival
Design) - Bronze
SingapoRediscovers Brand Film Micebook UK
‘A Girl And Her Magic Binoculars’ Awards Campaign
TBWA\Singapore
Best Destination:
Singapore Tourism Board

--- PAGE 73 ---

Singapore Tourism Board
Annual Report 2021/2022
REIGNITE
STB rekindled the passion for Singapore as an ideal
travel destination through a series of creative marketing
campaigns, collaborating with both local and international
stakeholders to illuminate Singapore’s rich cultural history,
underscoring the city’s beauty, diversity and innovation.
73

--- PAGE 74 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 74
Marketing Singapore
Encouraging locals to rediscover Singapore
SingapoRediscovers SingapoRediscovers
2021 saw a range of creative marketing
efforts and activations, and more (SRD) Campaign Vouchers
partnerships between STB and key
Launched in 2020, SRD continued Launched in December 2020, the To better support citizens who needed
stakeholders to increase Singapore’s
in 2021 to support and drive local SingapoRediscovers Vouchers (SRV) in-person assistance, STB set up 34
mindshare as a travel destination, while
demand and encourage consumption scheme was introduced to stimulate physical SRV counters at Community
increasing awareness of Singapore’s
of tourism and lifestyle offerings. domestic demand for tourism Clubs/Centres (CCs) and Residents’
hidden gems among locals.
Harnessing interest in areas such as businesses amidst the pandemic, Committees (RC) Centres. In August
food and nature, ‘Rediscover Your providing vouchers to Singaporeans to 2021, the use of Singpass at the CCs
Passions’ was introduced to reignite spend on tourism experiences. was further supplemented by the use of
more exploration around Singapore’s NRIC and other original identification
By the end of the scheme a year later,
experiences and precincts. documents, providing citizens more
more than 1.9 million Singaporeans
options for redemption.
had used their SRVs, making about
2.6 million transactions. Close to The SRV complemented STB’s
$300 million in SRV transactions were SingapoRediscovers campaign,
recorded, comprising close to $180 encouraging locals to explore our
million in vouchers and about $120 diverse offerings and support local
million in out-of-pocket payments for tourism businesses. The SRV scheme
SRV bookings. allowed both big and smaller merchants
across the various tourism industries
to generate revenue and sustain jobs
during the pandemic. During this
time, tourism businesses were also
encouraged to develop more innovative
Close to $300 million in
and differentiated products that
SRV transactions recorded
bolster Singapore’s attractiveness as a
destination with authentic experiences.

--- PAGE 75 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 75
Marketing Singapore
Encouraging locals to rediscover Singapore
Merli-Go-Round
Merli-Go-Round, a new gamification Since its launch, more than 50,000
feature launched in October 2021 quests were completed, as users
on the Visit Singapore Travel Guide discovered lesser-known local labels
app, aims to drive footfall to tourism and off-beat attractions such as Ginko
precincts in Singapore. Collection in Katong, Old Seng Choong
in Marina Bay, Eatbox in Little India, and
Ozel in Kampong Gelam.
Merli-Go-Round will continue as a
gamification platform to profile events.
Stakeholders can list themselves on
the Tourism Information and Services
Hub (TIH) or reach out to STB via our
feedback channels or business units.

--- PAGE 76 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 76
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
SingapoReimagine (SRI) SingapoReimagine Global Global media
Campaign Conversations (SRI GC) partnerships
With the gradual reopening of Singapore The SingapoReimagine Global STB leveraged platforms such as VICE,
through the Vaccinated Travel Lanes Conversations is a series of thought Buzzfeed and The Financial Times Partnerships reached over
(VTLs) in 2021, the SingaporeReimagine leadership forums that engage global to drive top-of-mind awareness and 56.9 million people globally
international recovery campaign picked industry stakeholders and business aspiration for Singapore in key source
up speed with in-market launches. This leaders. It aims to spark conversations, markets internationally, including the
campaign continues in 2022 with both stories and ideas, to encourage travel United States, the United Kingdom,
in-market and global activations to to Singapore. India, Indonesia, Australia, and
inspire and build anticipation for travel Europe.
The inaugural forum focusing
to Singapore, through highlighting new,
on ‘Reimagine Experiences’ was These partnerships amplified
unexpected, unknown, and innovative
launched in September 2021 via our SingapoReimagine recovery
offerings to be enjoyed with peace-of-
a 4-part video-on-demand series, campaign messaging through the
mind by our visitors.
followed by ‘Reimagine Sustainability’; authentic voices of key influencers.
launched in partnership with National
Editorials and videos covered the
Geographic and livestreamed globally
future of travel, reimagined travel
in March 2022. Localised editions
experiences and lesser-known
were also introduced such as The New
cultural roots in Singapore.
Yorker Festival in the United States,
and Intelligence Squared in Dubai
and the UK.

--- PAGE 77 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 77
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
The Apprentice:
ONE Championship
edition LinkedIn Partnership STB-DBS partnership
The Apprentice: ONE Championship STB inked a partnership with LinkedIn
STB x LinkedIn
edition was a unique collaboration to drive business connections
partnership drove
that profiled Singapore’s key and growth in the B2B space. The
a 75% increase in
offerings and local businesses partnership has driven a 75% increase
followers
through a reality show format. in followers, maintaining our lead as
Through this collaboration, there the most followed convention bureau
was a high uplift in awareness and LinkedIn page globally. The areas
consideration of SG as an exciting of cooperation include co-branded
and business-friendly destination. activations with LinkedIn at our key
business events, brand impact analysis
Distributed in over 11 countries
and insights, and LinkedIn content
globally via broadcast and digital
webinars for our industry stakeholders.
platforms, and viewed by more than
52 million people since Mar 2021,
the show won two awards at the
Asian Academy Creative Awards: STB collaborated with the Development
Best Adaptation of an Existing Bank of Singapore (DBS) to drive usage
Format and Best Non-Scripted of SingapoRediscovers Vouchers (SRV)
Entertainment. It is now available by using the bank’s data analytics
on Netflix. capabilities to identify target segments
and curate relevant destination content
and promotions. The campaign featured
more than 70 SRV deals on Klook and on
DBS Travel & Leisure Marketplace.

--- PAGE 78 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 78
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
STB-Mastercard’s
“Rediscover Priceless® Tripartite “Welcome Back to Singapore”
Singapore” marketing partnership between STB, Singapore
partnership Airlines and Changi Airport Group
STB’s campaign with Mastercard
drove local spend for tourism and
lifestyle businesses by offering
families and young professionals
over 100 deals, including 16 new
and exclusive Priceless Experiences,
curated using insights on
cardholder expenditure.
This campaign showcased our warm hospitality, strengthened
travel confidence, and drove consideration and bookings for
trips to Singapore. Launched in Germany, India, Australia,
the United Kingdom and the United States following the
establishment of VTLs, the campaign will progressively launch
in other markets.

--- PAGE 79 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 79
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Cruise
Following the start of ‘cruises-to-nowhere’ in 2020 for
the Singapore market, there were more than 370 sailings
with over half a million passengers going on cruises as
of June 2022, many of whom were first-time cruisers.
The launch of the Vaccinated Travel Framework in April
2022 prepared Singapore to welcome back international
cruise passengers. Royal Caribbean’s Spectrum of the
Seas was also deployed year-round from April 2022, a
result of the Cruise Development Fund (CDF) partnership
between STB and Royal Caribbean.

--- PAGE 80 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 80
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Americas
MICE LinkedIn Campaigns
Targeting US Planners Singapore By Stream The New Yorker Festival
Capitalising on The New Yorker Festival
(TNFY) as a cultural bellwether, STB
curated a virtual panel “Of Sustenance
and Sustainability: A Singapore
Story”. Featuring Carrie Chan of
Capitalising on VTLs, STB targeted US
Avant, Singaporean chefs Jeremy
MICE planners through LinkedIn across
Cheok, Lisa Tang and Kuah Chew
two campaigns. The first, “While You
Shian, and NYC New York writer Max
Were Gone”, portrayed Singapore as A world’s first, viewers explored
Falkowitz, Singapore was profiled for
a viable city for meetings and hybrid Singapore in real-time with
its reimagination in food sustainability.
events during Covid-19, while the second cabbie Francis via America’s No. 1
The results surpassed TNFY
encouraged US planners to host events livestreaming platform – Twitch. The
benchmarks, hitting over 2.7 million
and groups at Singapore’s sustainable activation surpassed expectations:
impressions, exceeding engagement
hotels and event spaces. The campaign four livestreams garnered over
rate targets by 13,671% and video
garnered 660,000 impressions and a 285,400 unique views and 3,100 chat
completion rates by 93%.
reach of over 500,000, with strong messages, making it to the top 1% of
buyer engagement. all livestreams. Travel + Leisure aptly
called it “the king of virtual tours”.

--- PAGE 81 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 81
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Europe | Brussels
Singapore Food
Festival in France
STB launched an activation for multi- The activation featured exclusive
platform Singapore Food Festival (SFF) masterclasses with the winner of
in France, which cut across PR, paid MasterChef France Khanh Ly Huynh
marketing and social media channels, for lifestyle influencers, key tour
achieving a combined reach of operators and MICE intermediaries,
49 million. where attendees tried their hands at
a Singaporean favourite – rojak! The
STB collaborated with Singaporean
activation also saw good coverage from
café The Hood in Paris to curate an
key French media such as Konbini
SFF-exclusive Peranakan menu that
(10 million reach) and Sortir à Paris
paid homage to Singapore’s
(7.5 million reach).
gastronomy scene.
Personal invitations were sent to key
lifestyle journalists and influencers such
as Emilie Lesur (Journal des Femmes)
and Julia Dion (Elle) to try the exclusive
menu. A media partnership with Grazia. Combined reach Achieved total IMV
fr also resulted in the creation of a video of 49 million of SGD 654,921
about pandan chiffon cake.

--- PAGE 82 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 82
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
London
SingapoReimagine Global
Raya and The Last Dragon Conversations London Craft Gin Club
STB’s partnership with Craft Gin Club
(CGC), UK’s largest gin subscription
club, saw a curated Singapore box
sent to 78,500 households in August
2021. The box featured Made With
Passion (MWP) brands Brass Lion
Gin & Uncle Saba’s Poppadams. The
campaign generated over 1.4 million
As part of SRI Global Conversations,
impressions, performing 7% better
STB organised a live B2B event in
STB worked with Disney UK and Flight than CGC’s past campaigns.
London in March 2022 in collaboration
Centre UK on a jointly branded 6-month
with Intelligence Squared, a thought-
integrated marketing campaign
leading content and events organiser.
promoting Raya & The Last Dragon and
The event brought together global
Singapore, including launch packages
experts on topics including future Over 1.4 million
in line with the film. The campaign
travel and sustainability, enhancing impressions
generated a reach of 6.2 million with
Singapore’s positioning as a thought- generated
a 65% completion rate, achieving 43%
leader in travel.
more impressions than the set target.
Generated
6.2 milion reach

--- PAGE 83 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 83
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Middle East
Singapore themed
#HalaSingapore gourmet meal kits
12.45 million
impressions
STB brought Destination Singapore to An exclusive immersive dining
the forefront with #HalaSingapore, a experience was staged with VIP
unique 3-pronged initiative that enabled guests and key media stakeholders,
audiences in Dubai to explore Singapore including Conde Nast Traveller Middle
virtually, through a specially curated East, GQ Middle East, and Time
website and an on-ground Out Dubai. This resulted in a total
mall activation. reach of 6.99 million, 12.45 million United Arab Emirates (UAE) gourmet
impressions, and 89,000 website meal kit brand Naksha partnered
views. Mall footfall also increased by with STB to create three authentic
15% during the 3- day activation. Singapore-inspired cuisine recipe kits
designed by Michelin Star Chef Haikal
Johari. Artwork featured in the recipe
kits was hand drawn by Singapore
artist Tan Zi Xi and made available in
premium supermarkets in the UAE.

--- PAGE 84 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 84
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
India
Chhota Bheem Instagram Reel campaign
Adventures in Singapore Singapore Edit Festival ‘Khoye Se Singapore’
STB partnered with Little Black Book
(LBB), an ecommerce platform, under
In a first-of-its kind partnership, STB
the “Singapore Edit Festival", to launch STB India launched an Instagram
collaborated with Voot Kids OTT app and
a Singapore-inspired limited collection reel campaign named ‘Khoye Se
series creator Green Gold Animation to
of lifestyle products. The partnership Singapore’ by onboarding 27 pan-Indian
take little viewers on a virtual adventure
More than 7 million brought together six Indian and four Instagram influencers to engage the
in Singapore with Chhota Bheem and
video views and Singaporean homegrown brands. As local audiences and inspire them to
his friends. The 7-part video series which
INR 12 million in IMV STB's first project in the retail space in share their SG memories. The campaign
was available in English, Hindi and Tamil
India, the campaign received almost 2.3 garnered over 7.8 million views and
was presented as a “Gift of Smiles” to
million page views and a social media 600,000 engagements over a period of 4
children who were staying home due to
reach of 19.5 million. weeks.
the pandemic. The 2-month campaign
delivered more than 7 million video
views and garnered an IMV of
INR 12 million.
Almost 2.3 million page Over 7.8 million views
views and a social media and 600,000 engagements
reach of 19.5 million

--- PAGE 85 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 8855
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Greater China | Mainland China
Joint marketing campaigns
with CTrip: STB x Trip.com
Group Global MOU
In partnership with Ctrip, STB launched three
campaigns to drive greater mindshare of Singapore
and increase pre-sales of Singapore products. This
included a “520.Romance” digital campaign in May
3.9 million views
2021 to showcase itineraries for Chinese travellers to
enjoy with their loved ones, as well as a livestream on
New Year’s Eve in December 2021, featuring KOL-led
virtual showcases of attractions such as Southern
Ridges and Little India. There was also a glamping-
themed campaign featuring East Coast Park
and Gallop Kranji Farm, launched in March 2022.
As of March 2022, the campaigns achieved over
3.9 million views and pre-sale bookings for close
to 38,000 pax.

--- PAGE 86 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 8866
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Greater China | Hong Kong, Taiwan, Macau
Taiwan – Collaboration with
Starlux Airlines for new
Taipei-Singapore route
STB partnered Starlux Airlines on a multi-
touchpoint collaboration to profile Singapore
from September to November 2021 when Starlux
launched their new Taipei-Singapore route.
Achieved IMV of more
Campaign highlights included a month-long Merli than TWD8,778,000
pop-up at Starlux’s 7-11 concept store in downtown (SGD434,000) overall
Taipei, a series of 9 social media posts on Starlux’s
owned social pages, and a broadcast of STB’s SRI
Better Film in all 7-11 stores across Taiwan.
The Merli pop-up attracted 29,000 visitors,
and a social reach of 776,000.

--- PAGE 87 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 8877
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Southeast Asia | Indonesia
Launch of SingapoReimagine
For the Indonesian market, STB launched flavour. STB also launched a virtual training
SingapoReimagine in April through a “puzzle programme with TBO Academy, reaching a
mural” collaboration between an Indonesian network of 2,000 agents across Indonesia
and Singaporean artist. Featuring artwork and certifying agents as “Singapore
split across borders, the piece reimagined Destination Specialists”.
travel through art. Later in the year, STB
To entrench SingapoReimagine messaging,
teamed up with hospitality group ARTOTEL to
STB commissioned a 3-part video series
conceptualize five themed rooms for a truly
starring Singapore-based Indonesian
Singapore-styled staycation experience.
celebrities, showcasing Singapore’s new and
To tell the Singapore food story and scale up transformed experiences. These in-market
Singapore Food Festival promotions, STB activities were amplified by three local
partnered GoFood for a city-wide delivery media partnerships with Kumparan.com, Over 2 million
promotion of SG-inspired dishes. STB worked EMTEK and Dream.co.id. views in 8 weeks
with Wings Food in July for the launch of
Mie Sedaap’s new Singapore Spicy Laksa

--- PAGE 88 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 8888
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Southeast Asia | Malaysia
MOU with AirAsia
In February 2022, STB inked a regional
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
AirAsia, focusing on promoting travel to Singapore
and tourism recovery across key Southeast Asian
markets, such as Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand
and the Philippines.
The MOU goes beyond tactical promotions, with
the goal of enabling both parties to embark on
joint marketing efforts, product development,
information sharing, inventory building and digital
exploration through AirAsia’s platforms, leveraging
on its wide reach to consumers in the region.
STB also partnered with industry stakeholders to
onboard and profile tourism experiences such as
hotels, attractions and tours in Singapore onto
AirAsia’s super app, which is gaining relevance as
a one-stop solution for travel needs. Both parties
are also committed to sharing information such
as flight data, consumer insights and spending
behaviour to sharpen our understanding of
travellers in the region.

--- PAGE 89 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 89
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Southeast Asia | Phillipines
SingapoReimagine
In March 2021, STB Philippines
dishes. As travel borders were closed
launched a 7-episode edutainment
at that time, Singaporean chef and
video series to introduce and
restaurateur Bjorn Shen guided them
promote Zi Char dishes to the Filipino
through video calls and also told them
audience as part of STB’s global
more about the history of Zi Char and
SingapoReimagine campaign. As Zi
its popularity in Singapore today.
Char was relatively unknown to Filipino
Given that Philippines was in a
audiences, the series’ Filipino KOLs
lockdown for most of 2021, this
virtually learnt how to pronounce “zi
food content leveraged the trend of
char” and how to cook classic Zi Char
home cooking and maintained high
awareness of Singapore by telling
stories of Singapore food. Moreover,
Zi Char dishes often have unexpected
ingredient pairings such as coffee
with pork ribs and prawn paste with
chicken, and this piqued the curiosity
and interest of Filipino audiences.
To create greater buzz and interest,
STB also partnered with 5 eateries in
19.5 million views on
Manila to create Zi Char dishes and
YouTube and Facebook
offer them via food delivery.

--- PAGE 90 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 90
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Southeast Asia | Thailand
SingapoReimagine Attracting future travellers through influencers
The Singapore Virtual Tour video series
led by Thai influencers brought the
Thai audience to explore lesser-known
neighbourhoods such as Katong-Joo
Chiat, Jalan Besar and Kampong Gelam.
The series received more than 2.45
SingapoReimagine was introduced million video views. Generating 295,000
to Thai audiences through five well- video views and a reach of 255,000,
known Thai illustrators to highlight Singapore retail and Made with Passion
Singapore’s reimagined tourism brands were featured on a fashion
offerings. Colourful illustrations were advertorial and a Thai actress’ vlog.
free to download via the LINE Official
The story was also picked up by the
Account @VisitSingaporeTH for fans
media through PR pitching. Foodie
to use as wallpaper on computers or
influencers introduced Singapore’s
mobile phones.
dining concept of Zi Char, featuring
popular dishes such as cereal prawn,
prawn paste chicken wings and coffee
pork ribs. Zi Char was also shared
through media engagements, consumer
activities and during the Singapore
Food Festival.

--- PAGE 91 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9911
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
Southeast Asia | Vietnam
Engaging Key
Opinion Leaders
STB leveraged Vietnamese celebrities
living in Singapore and Vietnamese KOLs
to keep Singapore top of mind in Vietnam.
Vietnamese celebrity Hoang Oanh (living in
Singapore since 2020) shared her first-hand
experiences and thoughts on how Singapore
was managing the pandemic, as well as a
glimpse of her daily Singapore life, achieving
20.2 million impressions, 12.4 million reach
and 8.3 million views.
STB also engaged Family and Early Career
KOLs to share their past travel stories about
Singapore, their opinions on how Singapore
kept its citizens and visitors safe during the
pandemic, and their future travel aspirations.
The campaigns won positive comments from
their fans who expressed their wish to travel
to Singapore when borders reopened.

--- PAGE 92 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9922
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
North Asia | South Korea
3rd edition of SUMMSING Festival
The SUMMSING Festival returned for a third STB also produced an 8-episode Singapore-
year in 2021. To keep Singapore top-of-mind branded webtoon, <“Yeowoodam: Sweet
despite travel restrictions, STB worked with 4 Singapore”> with rising Korean cartoonist
Korean consumer and lifestyle brands across Nah, in partnership with Naver Webtoon,
industries. a webtoon publisher launched by Naver
Corporation. Over 2 million views were
Activations included CU Convenience Store, a
garnered for the webtoon in 8 weeks; the
leading franchise of over 15,000 convenience
webtoon was also recognised as “Best
stores nation-wide, where limited-edition
Naver Webtoon in 2021” by Naver, receiving
Singapore-inspired snacks (“Chilli Crab
an average star rating of 9.96/10.
Burger”, “Chilli Crab Shrimp Rice Bowl” and
“Kaya Jam Toast”) were introduced. Over STB also collaborated with The Shilla
240,000 units were sold during the campaign. Duty Free group, working with travel retail
enterprise Shilla Trip to run virtual tours by
veteran local guides in Singapore for Shilla
Over 2 million
Trip members.
views in 8 weeks
To target audiences such as “Action
Seekers”, STB initiated photo contests
together with leading Korean sports brand
BlackYak, showcasing the adventurous side
of Singapore.

--- PAGE 93 ---

Annual Report 2021/2022 93
Marketing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
North Asia | South Korea
Two-year MOU between Singapore-Korea
STB and KTO VTL travel packages VTL video Trade Connect
To commemorate the launch of the Our first Singapore-Korea Trade
VTL, 4 major travel agencies – Hana Connect, the first trade event which
Tour, Hanjin Travel, Mode Tour and included Singapore industry partners
Very Good Tour – came together to since the outbreak of COVID-19, was
create VTL travel packages highlighting A VTL video to dispel misperceptions held over 2 weeks in March 2022.
Singapore’s hygiene and safety. about the VTL travel process was also The inaugural session on 23 March
Featuring activities, experiences and produced with popular South Korean was also the first event held in a
authentic Singapore food and culture, comedian and television host Yoo Se hybrid format and saw 20 agents
Along with the launch of the the VTL travel packages were unveiled Yoon. Tapping on his popular detective attending on-site and another 60
Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) on 3 November 2021. Within the first series, the video was released on 24 online; while the second session was
between South Korea and Singapore week of its launch, it received bookings November 2021. held entirely online on 30 March,
in November 2021, STB signed a from 350 travellers. By 10 March 2022, Yoo Se Yoon's IG post with an audience of 50 travel agents.
two-year MOU with Korean Tourism
of the video garnered approximately Response from stakeholders from
Organization (KTO) to co-promote both
408,000 views with 7,781 likes and Singapore was overwhelming.
destinations, develop technological
118 comments, 12,119 views and 38
solutions to benefit our respective
comments on YouTube, and 20,854
industries, and boost bilateral tourism.
views on STB’s Facebook page.
Joint marketing activities included a
6-episode webtoon series featuring
STB’s Merli and KTO’s mascot, Hojong,
enjoying travel in each other’s country.
More than 20,000 views
on STB’s Facebook page

--- PAGE 94 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9944
OMcaerkaentiaing Singapore
Marketing Singapore to the World
North Asia | Japan
Bringing Singapore to Japan
2021 marked the 55th anniversary of the
establishment of diplomatic relations between
Singapore and Japan (SJ55). To celebrate
this milestone and keep Singapore top-of-
mind during the pandemic, STB brought
together partners from both Singapore and Featured programmes include Singaporean films on
Japan to run a year-long campaign to “Bring Netflix, a nation-wide Singapore Food Fair with premium
Singapore To Japan”, setting the pathway and supermarket chain Seijio Ishii, virtual and “live” broadcast
momentum for the recovery of tourism. tours with key travel intermediaries, a collaboration with
popular Japanese mobile game developer Bushiroad, and
Singapore was marketed through an
an exclusive branded content partnership with Japanese
exciting line-up of 11 programmes under
superhero, Ultraman. As of March 2022, the Ultraman video
SJ55, specially curated to engage our target
series generated more than 1.6 million views.
consumer segments, with launch dates that
were strategically timed to achieve maximum
and sustained exposure throughout the year.
Over 1.6 million views
generated to date

--- PAGE 95 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9955
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Forging a more digital-enabled industry
Launch of Tcube
To help tourism businesses redesign The resources and digital initiatives • Learn – Tourism businesses can tap on Tcube’s
experiences, and to support companies’ available on Tcube are organised digital initiatives to learn about their state
overall digital transformation, STB under the three-step Learn-Test- of digital transformation and be inspired by
launched Tcube on 7 April 2021 – a Build framework. Tcube has innovation trends and best practices on tech
hybrid innovation space that brings helped more than 1,000 local and data analytics.
STB’s digital initiatives, resources and tourism companies scale up their
• Test – Tcube fosters an open innovation
thought-leadership content onto a digitalisation efforts.
environment where tourism businesses can
single platform.
testbed innovative solutions through tech and
data proof-of-concepts and pilots.
• Build – Tcube provides a suite of smart services
where tourism businesses can tap on data and
shared content to drive innovation and guide
their business decisions.

--- PAGE 96 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9966
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Forging a more digital-enabled industry
Singapore Tourism
Analytics Network (Stan)
The Singapore Tourism Analytics In 2021, Stan released new features The Hotel Landscape Dashboard helps
Network (Stan) is a data analytics such as data visualisation for the hospitality industry derive greater
platform where the tourism industry can Visitor Arrivals forecasting, Hotel insights for planning and business
derive insights on visitors to Singapore. Performance, and the Hotel decisions through data such as the
The information allows them to identify Landscape. The Visitor Arrivals volume of accommodation and room
key trends and better understand their Forecast uses advanced analytics stock measured over the years.
target audience so as to create curated models to predict future visitor arrivals
Another new feature in Stan is the
experiences and content for their from 5 key markets (Australia, China,
Private Space, a secured personal space
customers. Stan has benefited over 300 India, Indonesia, Malaysia), which
for tourism companies to conduct
tourism companies to date. could be used by tourism businesses as
data exploration and analysis on their
they plan for recovery.
organisation at no cost, as well as Data
Marketplace, a platform for the industry
to share and consume Singapore
tourism-related data.

--- PAGE 97 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9977
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Forging a more digital-enabled industry
Enhancements on
Safe Travel Experience on Tourism Information &
Visit Singapore Channels Services Hub (TIH) E-Visitor Authentication
As Singapore gradually reopened our On VisitSingapore.com, the Travel TIH continued to play an important As part of the tourism sector’s digital
borders with VTLs and other travel Lane Widget was launched to direct role in supporting our tourism transformation efforts, STB onboarded
lanes, STB helped visitors navigate visitors to the relevant Safe Travel Lane companies as we gear up for tourism hotels accounting for over 20% of
the various entry and in-destination information based on their country recovery. In February 2022, TIH Singapore’s total hotel room inventory
requirements via the VisitSingapore. of departure. This was simplified introduced a new media category to the E-Visitor Authentication (EVA)
com and Visit Singapore mobile app. into a step-by-step guide on what for industry users to self-serve and System, which automates and speeds
visitors need to prepare ahead of download 3D models. Our tourism up the check-in process for hotel guests.
their trip, along with up-to-date Safe companies are now able to leverage
Management Measures to help them these free 3D models to build and
visualise the in-destination experience. customise their own Extended Reality
experiences, as well as to innovate and
STB also worked with the Safe Travel
create immersive content for visitors.
Office to make the Safe Travel Pass
available in a QR code format on the In conjunction with the inaugural
Visit Singapore mobile app, to ease Wellness Festival Singapore 2022, TIH
pre-boarding and immigration checks launched the ‘Wellness Listings’ page
for visitors. to provide industry users with wellness
options, ranging from wellness resorts
to boutique fitness centres. These
supported over 40 businesses in their
digital marketing and promoted their
wellness products.

--- PAGE 98 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9988
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Taking big steps in transformation and sustainability
Propelling Accelerating enterprise-wide
sustainability efforts transformation in hospitality
STB and the Singapore Hotel Association A number of tourism stakeholders also STB continued to work with hotel For example, STB supported
(SHA) jointly organised the inaugural made progress in their sustainability partners to drive holistic business Copthorne King’s Hotel Singapore to
Hotel Sustainability Conference & efforts. Resorts World Sentosa, Grand transformation in technological deploy an in-room digital concierge
Marketplace, during which the Hotel Hyatt Singapore and Marina Bay adoption and innovation, manpower that automates amenities requests,
Sustainability Roadmap was launched. Sands cultivated creative sustainable development, and emerging areas room service orders and facility
The key certification and emissions solutions that earned them the such as sustainability and wellness. bookings, while using artificial
reduction targets for the Singapore Singapore Tourism Awards 2022. STB’s Business Improvement Fund intelligence to push out personalised
hospitality industry were announced to From reducing food waste to reducing supported approximately 50 hotel recommendations to guests.
advance its maturity in sustainability for their overall carbon footprint, these productivity projects, with many
the next five years and beyond. organisations have championed the implementing solutions to automate
industry towards a more sustainable business processes and offer
future. Resorts World Sentosa also enhanced guest experiences.
became the first tourism business
in Southeast Asia to secure Global
Sustainable Tourism Council
Destination Criteria and Industry
Criteria for Hotels certification.

--- PAGE 99 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 9999
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Taking big steps in transformation and sustainability
Encouraging
collaborations Upskilling the industry
through innovation in marketing skills
The Tour Experience Innovation Lab STB also collaborated with Sentosa The STB Marketing College Masterclass
(TEIL), launched in 2021, is an innovation Development Corporation (SDC) to Series helped marketing professionals
programme that encourages tour develop the Sentosa Signature Tours in the travel and tourism industry
operators and travel agents to reimagine series (SentoSights). prepare for tourism recovery through
tour experiences in Singapore and upskilling.
More than 8 new tours, such as Escape
provide more compelling and attractive
from St John’s Island, Serapong Trail, First launched in 2020, the Masterclass
offerings for both locals and visitors.
and Sentosa Intertidal Exploration, Series provided a deep dive into
Under the programme, STB partnered
were launched from Nov 2021, focusing marketing topics through industry
with the National Arts Council to create
on heritage, sustainability, marine players and subject matter experts
the Performing Arts Tours Pilot Grant
conservation and biodiversity. to drive agile, bold, and creative
(PATPG).
marketing. From June 2021 to April
The PATPG facilitated cross sectoral 2022, STB Marketing College partnered
collaborations between arts with Visa, Adobe, LinkedIn, Sentosa
practitioners and tour operators through and TikTok to run 5 masterclass
a new grant scheme that supports the webinars with over 1,500 attendees.
development of innovative performing
arts tours. It also facilitated innovation
through a regulatory sandbox. Five
pilot performing arts tours, including
The Secret Life of Haw Par Villa and
Voices: Memories of Kampong Lorong
Buangkok, were launched in the first
quarter of 2022.

--- PAGE 100 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110000
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Promoting careers in tourism
Partnership with WSG
on Career Conversion Formation of Tourism
Programmes Tourism Careers Hub Human Capital Office
Over the past two years, STB and In January 2022, STB partnered In August 2021, STB formed the
Workforce Singapore (WSG) supported National Trades Union Congress Tourism Human Capital Office to focus
over 140 tourism companies through (NTUC), unions and trade associations on restructuring Singapore’s tourism
Career Conversion Programmes (CCPs) to pilot the Tourism Careers Hub workforce, building future-ready jobs
such as the CCP for Housekeeping (TCH) which provides integrated end- and skills and developing longer-term
Specialist, Digital Operations and to-end support for tourism workers strategies to grow tourism human
Immersive Digital Experience. This and firms in three key areas – job capital for continued resilience post
helped over 1,300 workers take on matching within the tourism sector, COVID-19.
redesigned or enhanced job roles. industry-specific upskilling and
training, and business transformation.
In response to pandemic shifts and
One key value-add is the presence of
the most pressing manpower needs in
dedicated career coaches who will
hotels, the CCP for Hotel Professionals
help jobseekers chart out individual
reskilled employees to take on
development plans to prepare them
redesigned jobs in Professional,
for a career in the tourism sector.
Manager, Executive and Technician
(PMET) roles. These included Front
Office Manager and Head Chef, as
well as Rank-and-File (RnF) roles
such as Guest Relations Agent and
Housekeeping Attendant.

--- PAGE 101 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110011
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Attractions
New attractions Jurong Lake District
in Singapore SkyHelix Sentosa Tourism Development
Singapore welcomed the launch of the SkyHelix Sentosa opened in December In March 2022, STB launched a It will also complement existing nearby
Museum of Ice Cream (MOIC) in August 2021 and provides its guests with an Request for Proposals (RFP) to develop attractions such as the Jurong Lake
2021. The attraction is an interactive open-air panoramic ride with 360° and operate an integrated tourism Gardens and the new Science Centre,
playhouse where visitors are encouraged sights of Sentosa and the developing development at Jurong Lake District. and will be well-integrated with the
to interact with installations, featuring Greater Southern Waterfront while The 6.8ha site next to Jurong Lake is entire Jurong Lake District.
ice cream and candy-themed exhibits in dangling their feet in the air. The envisioned to become a key lifestyle
a brightly coloured maze of rooms. This attraction is among the first certified and tourism hub in Singapore’s largest
is the company’s Asia flagship location carbon neutral attractions in business district outside the CBD. The
and the first to be launched outside the Singapore, adhering to international tourism development is expected to
United States. standards such as the Greenhouse Gas comprise a unique and world class mix
Protocol and PAS 2060. of attractions, hotel, retail, F&B and
entertainment offerings – all with an
emphasis on technology, “edutainment”
and sustainability.

--- PAGE 102 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110022
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Precincts
Enlivening our
Precincts Through Art
To strengthen Singapore’s reputation ‘Nam June Paik: The Future Is Now’
as an international arts destination and featuring works by the Korean-American
build international mindshare among artist, opened in December 2021 at the
art audiences, STB supported visually National Gallery, with Singapore as
impactful and unique exhibitions and the sole Asian venue for the exhibition
installations against the backdrop tour. As part of Singapore Art Week
of Singapore’s iconic locations. The 2022, Porsche’s “The Art of Dreams”
renowned glass sculptor Dale Chihuly initiative featured Cyril Lancelin's
launched his first major garden show at installation "Remember Your Dreams"
Gardens by the Bay in April 2021, while at The Promontory. Singapore-based
KAWS:HOLIDAY landed in Singapore’s artists also created eye-catching work at
Marina Bay Floating Platform for the first Kampong Gelam’s Hall of Fame, a stretch
time in Southeast-Asia. of walls along Bali Lane and Ophir Road.

--- PAGE 103 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110033
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Dining
Singapore Food
STB-Chope Partnership Festival 2021
STB signed a 10-month partnership Held in a hybrid format for the first
with Chope to drive discovery and time in its 28-year history, Singapore
spend at F&B establishments within Food Festival 2021 doubled in
key tourism precincts from December scale and galvanised over 80
More than 1.5 million
2020 to September 2021. The campaign industry partners spanning F&B
unique viewers
supported STB’s domestic recovery establishments, tour operators, hotels,
efforts (SingapoRediscovers), and and malls. In addition, 11 overseas
centred on the creation of relevant and STB offices activated the festival in
compelling content for engagement their respective markets. The event’s
while spotlighting exciting deals. programming was also a multi-
SFF 2021 achieved
agency effort across STB, Enterprise
SGD 5.3 million IMV
Singapore, Singapore Food Agency
and National Environment Agency.
The event saw more than 1.5 million
unique viewers and 2,600 physical
attendees.

--- PAGE 104 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110044
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Meetings, Incentive Travel, Conventions & Exhibitions (MICE)
Driving MICE Recovery
The introduction of the Safe Business In June, STB, the Professional The paper highlighted strong STB also signed MOUs to secure new
Events (SBE) framework in 2020 Convention Management Association indications of growth and innovation in events including FIND – Design Fair
facilitated the organisation of safe and (PCMA) and UFI (The Global Association the Asia Pacific, and three innovation Asia, Gastech, Transport Logistics and
progressive MICE events in 2021 with of the Exhibition Industry) launched pillars to reimagine the MICE industry: Air Cargo, SILMO and Seafood Expo
over 200 events attended by close to a white paper, “Reimagining Business Business Models, Delegate Experience Asia, to be held in 2022 and beyond.
50,000 participants. In the first three Events – Through COVID-19 and and Talent & Capabilities. The pipeline of MICE events for 2022
months of 2022 alone, Singapore hosted Beyond”. Announced at the first hybrid remains vibrant with the launch of
Singapore remains a trusted partner
more than 150 events. Singapore MICE Forum x IBTM Wired, new events like Asia Tech x Singapore,
to host world-class MICE events. In
the white paper was the first such Agri-Food Tech Expo Asia, Cosmoprof
Pushing the envelope further while January 2022, Singapore received
collaboration between a destination Asia, and Jewellery and Gem World
maintaining the safety of our events, the 2022 PCMA Chair’s Award for its
and leading associations representing Singapore, and the return of recurring
STB worked with the industry to test contributions to the business events
the exhibitions, conventions and marquee events such as Food and
new and innovative protocols under industry in 2021. PCMA highlighted
meetings industry. It took stock of how Hotel Asia.
successful pilot events – the Joint STB’s work and agility in supporting
various sectors within the industry
Leadership Summit, gamescom asia, Singapore’s safe reopening of business
transformed in response to COVID-19,
Bloomberg New Economy Forum and events. In the latest rankings by the
and consolidated ideas from around the
Industrial Transformation Asia Pacific. International Congress and Convention
world to help business event organisers
Most notably, we saw the return of the Association (ICCA), Singapore emerged
rethink their offerings and operations.
Singapore Airshow in February 2022 with as the top convention city in Asia Pacific
close to 13,000 attendees. and 4th internationally.

--- PAGE 105 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110055
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Retail
Collaborations and
Partnerships
In line with STB’s aim of growing local To further inject vibrancy into STB also encouraged collaborations
brands, the second phase for Made Singapore’s retail landscape, STB across sectors, such as between local
With Passion (MWP) launched in supported local brands’ collaborations artists and designers at Design Orchard
September 2021, with 64 new brands with international IPs like Museum of (February 22), and Singapore Airlines
and partnerships with platforms like Ice Cream (April 2021), WeBareBears with local brands for upcycled retail
Airbnb Experiences and KrisShop to (November 2021), Mickey Loves merchandise (December 21) to promote
drive greater engagement and spend. SG (February 2022) and Minions a sustainable lifestyle in Singapore.
KrisShop developed a MWP virtual (October to December 2021).
home showcase and augmented These collaborations resulted in
reality animations to introduce fun and the development of unique, local-
differentiated shopping experiences. inspired, limited edition or exclusive
merchandise and experiences.

--- PAGE 106 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110066
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Retail Sports & Wellness
Orchard Road
Rejuvenation Plan Urban Wellness Haven
STB has continued to strengthen STB also supported the Orchard Road STB forged ahead with its aim of Kicking off STB’s wellness movement
Orchard Road's appeal as a must-visit Business Association in enhancing Singapore becoming an Urban was the ClassPass partnership
lifestyle destination. In September the precinct's signature annual event, Wellness Haven, focusing on creating in August 2021, to raise more
2021, Singapore Land Authority (SLA) Christmas on a Great Street. Beyond awareness and securing local and awareness and advocacy for local
and Urban Redevelopment Authority stretches of thematic lighting across international support. STB developed wellness experiences, and to provide
(URA) partnered to activate a vacant Orchard Road, the 2021 edition a five-year strategy and roadmap to businesses with a global platform to
site beside the Somerset Skate Park delivered the precinct's first outdoor leverage Singapore’s status as a City share their offerings with local and
by launching a land tender for an building projection complemented by in Nature, with a focus on the fitness, international audiences. Through the
attraction concept. The successful bid is Augmented Reality (AR), which featured mental and emotional wellness first campaign, 82 new establishments
The Ride Side's Trifecta, an integrated Singapore’s tourism mascots Merli sectors, and harnessing destination were onboarded, expanding
set of arenas for skate, surf, ski and and Friends, providing visitors a more strengths like multiculturalism and ClassPass listings beyond their fitness
snowboard activities that is expected to immersive event experience. innovative technology. core to include wellness businesses.
open in 2023.

--- PAGE 107 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110077
OTrcaenasnfoiarming the tourism sector
Enhancing Singapore’s Attractiveness
Sports & Wellness
F1 Term Renewal Return of live sporting
events
Singapore announced that it would This is the fourth contract renewal Singapore once again hosted live The Grand Finale of the Standard
continue to host the Formula 1 for Singapore, and the longest for sporting events in 2021 and 2022, a Chartered Singapore Marathon (SCSM)
Singapore Grand Prix as part of the FIA the race to date. The renewal gives move welcomed by fans and sports 2021 event celebrated the return of
Formula One World Championship for Singapore a longer runway to capture event organisers. The HSBC Women’s mass participation events and was the
another seven years, from 2022 to 2028. pent-up demand as international travel World Championship (HWWC) (29 largest in-person participation event to
The Singapore night race has been recovers, and allows STB, Singapore GP April to 2 May 2021) was the first take place in Singapore since the start
staged 12 times since its debut in 2008, and industry partners to develop new, international professional golf event of COVID-19 with up to 4,000 runners.
generating more than S$1.5 billion sustainable experiences to meet the in Asia since the COVID-19 pandemic Organisers ensured that SMMs were in
in incremental tourism receipts and evolving interests of locals and visitors. began and the first to pilot corporate place throughout the event to safeguard
attracting more than 550,000 unique hospitality for leisure events in the health and safety of all participants.
international visitors. Singapore. HWWC demonstrated
ONE Championship's 10th anniversary
ground-breaking initiatives such
tentpole event, ONE X, featured a
as an eight-person hospitality
star-studded card filled with massive
suite format, which provided an
matchups between past A-List ONE
innovative solution to maintain Safe
Champions such as Angela Lee, Stamp,
Management Measures (SMMs) while
Demetrious and Rodtang. Held on 26
offering exclusivity to guests. On the
March 2022 at the Singapore Indoor
technology front, the inaugural ‘Hex-
Stadium, the event had over 5,000
live’ digital platform allowed HSBC
spectators – the largest ‘live’ indoor
corporate guests to engage with
sporting event to take place during
bespoke content.
COVID-19 when capacity restrictions were
still in place.

--- PAGE 108 ---

Singapore Tourism Board
Annual Report 2021/2022
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
STB continues to uphold high standards of
corporate governance, ensuring corporate
transparency and the people’s trust in us.
108

--- PAGE 109 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 110099
OBocaeradn iGaovernance
Responsibilities Board Composition
of the Board and Appointment
The Board oversees and monitors There were twelve Directors on the The size and composition of the Board The Board is given the mandate to act
STB’s organisational performance and Board from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022 are guided by the clauses stated in the independently and to exercise objective
achievement of strategic goals and with the following movements: STB Act. The desired outcome is the judgment on the STB’s corporate
objectives. It assumes the responsibility provision of a conducive environment affairs. This is to ensure that checks
• The retirement of Mr Allen Law, Ms
of reviewing and approving corporate for effective discussions and decision- and balances are instituted. Apart from
Joanna Flint and Mr Prasad Menon
strategies, budgets and financial plans. making. The process for the appointment Mr Keith Tan and Ms Thien Kwee Eng,
on 31 December 2021.
of Directors to the Board is kept formal the other Directors on the Board are
• The appointment of Mr Arthur Lang
and transparent as this is critical to the Independent Directors. A Director’s
and Ms Soh Siew Choo on 1 January
role that corporate governance plays. A independence is re-assessed at the point
2022.
review of the Directors’ membership on of each re-appointment.
• And the reappointment of Mr Aaron the Board is done when his or her official
Maniam, Mr Lim Eng Hwee and Mr term of appointment ends.
Ravi Thakran from
1 January 2022.

--- PAGE 110 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 111100
OBocaeradn iGaovernance
Conduct of
Table 1: Directors’ Attendance at Board Meetings in FY2021
Board Affairs (1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022)
The Board approves financial
Scheduled Board Meetings Board Workshop1
transactions above a certain financial
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended
limit. A regular review of the financial
Mr Chaly Mah 5 5 1 1
authorisation and approval limits
is performed. During each financial Mr Keith Tan 5 5 1 1
year, the Directors are requested to Mr Saiful Saroni 5 5 1 1
complete an annual Board Evaluation
Mr Allen Law2 5 4 1 1
Questionnaire that allows the STB to
Ms Joanna Flint2 5 4 1 0
assess the overall administration of
Ms Audrey Kuah 5 4 1 1
Board matters and engagements with
the Board. Under the year in review, Mr Lim Eng Hwee 5 5 1 1
there were a total of five scheduled Mr Aaron Maniam 5 5 1 1
Board meetings and a half-day Board
Mr Prasad Menon2 5 3 1 1
Workshop to discuss key strategic
Ms Thien Kwee Eng 5 4 1 1
issues. A record of the Directors’
Mr Ravi Thakran 5 2 1 0
attendance at Board meetings during
the financial year, which ended on 31 Mrs Wong Ai Ai 5 4 1 1
March 2022, is set out in Table 1. Mr Arthur Lang3 5 1 1 0
Ms Soh Siew Choo3 5 1 1 0
1 Typically held in November
2 Mr Allen Law, Ms Joanna Flint and Mr Prasad Menon retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2021 and were scheduled for four Board Meetings.
3 Mr Arthur Lang and Ms Soh Siew Choo were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2022 and were both scheduled for one Board Meeting.

--- PAGE 111 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 111111
OBocaeradn iGaovernance
Corporate
Table 2: Directors’ Board Committee memberships and Attendance at Board
Governance Committee Meetings in FY2021 (1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022)
Directors are given access to the
ARC FIC Governance HRMC
STB’s records and information, senior
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
management, or any other staff of the
Mr Chaly Mah 2 2 3 3
organisation as deemed necessary
for them to effectively discharge their Mr Keith Tan 2 2 2 2 3 3
responsibilities and to deliberate Mr Saiful Saroni 3 3
meaningfully on issues discussed at
Mr Allen Law1 2 1
Board meetings.
Ms Joanna Flint2 3 1
The following Board Committees assist
Ms Audrey Kuah 3 3
the Board in executing its duties:
Mr Lim Eng Hwee 3 3
• Audit and Risk Committee (ARC)
Mr Aaron Maniam 3 2
• Finance and Investment Committee
(FIC) Mr Prasad Menon 2 2
• Governance Committee
Ms Thien Kwee Eng 2 2
• Human Resource Management
Mr Ravi Thakran 2 0
Committee (HRMC)
Mrs Wong Ai Ai3 3 1 2 1
A record of each Director’s Board
Mr Arthur Lang4 3 1
Committee memberships and
Ms Soh Siew Choo5 3 2
attendance at Board Committee
meetings during the financial year, v
1 Mr Allen Law retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2021 and was scheduled for one FIC meeting.
which ended on 31 March 2022, is set
2 Ms Jonna Flint retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2021 and was scheduled for one HRMC meeting.
out in Table 2. 3 Mrs Wong Ai Ai moved from the ARC to FIC with effect from 1 January 2022 and was scheduled for two ARC meetings and one FIC meeting.
4 Mr Arthur Lang was appointed to the ARC with effect from 1 January 2022 and was scheduled for one ARC meeting.
5 Ms Soh Siew Choo was appointed to the HRMC with effect from 1 January 2022 and was scheduled for two HRMC meeting.

--- PAGE 112 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 111122
Accountability, Internal Controls
And Risk Management
Audit and
Risk Committee External Audit Internal Audit
The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) In addition, the ARC also met with As part of the audit of the annual The Internal Audit reports functionally
comprises four independent and the external auditors and staff of financial statements, the external to the Chairman of the ARC and
non-executive Directors. At least Internal Audit without the presence of auditors conduct a review of the administratively to the Chief Executive.
two members of the ARC have the Management, during the financial year. significant internal controls. Any As part of its auditing, the Internal
requisite accounting or related financial In order to discharge its function and material non-compliance and/ Audit is guided by the current
management expertise to discharge duties, reasonable resources are made or internal control weaknesses, International Professional Practices
their responsibilities and duties. available to the ARC. together with the external auditors’ Framework issued by the Institute of
recommendations, are addressed and Internal Auditors. The adequacy of
The responsibilities of the ARC
Internal Controls
made known to the ARC. To maintain funding and staffing of the Internal
include ensuring the adequacy of
the independence of the external Audit and its appropriate standing
internal controls and reviewing audit The Board ensures that Management
auditors, the ARC has reviewed within the STB is ensured by the ARC.
plans, audit reports and audited STB maintains a sound system of internal
the nature and extent of non-audit
Annual Financial Statements. Besides controls to safeguard the interests The Internal Audit adopts risk-based
services provided by the external
overseeing accountability and audit, the of stakeholders and the assets of the auditing as its key audit assurance
auditors during the year and the fees
ARC also assists the Board by providing STB. The ARC ensures that a review practice. It provides regional offices,
paid for such services. The ARC is
oversight of the STB’s Enterprise Risk of the effectiveness of the STB’s process owners and policymakers
satisfied that the independence of
Management Framework through internal controls – including financial, of the STB, with reasonable
the external auditors has not been
regular risk management reports operational and compliance controls, assurance on the effectiveness of
impaired by the provision of those
from Management. and risk management – takes place control and governance processes
services. The external auditors have
annually through the various audits in the management of risks and
The ARC has explicit authority to
also provided confirmation of its
performed internally and through accomplishment of objectives.
investigate any matter within its terms
independence to the ARC.
related reports issued to the ARC.
of reference; it also has full access to,
For certain projects or areas where
and cooperation of, Management.
independent expertise is required in
It has direct access to the Internal
connection with the review of controls,
Audit and external auditors with full
external professionals and service
discretion to invite any Board Member or
providers are appointed accordingly.
Management staff to attend its meetings.

--- PAGE 113 ---

AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211//22002222 111133
Accountability, Internal Controls
And Risk Management
Finance and Human Resource
Whistleblowing Policy Investment Committee Governance Committee Management Committee
The STB has a whistleblowing policy The Finance and Investment The Governance Committee The Human Resource Management
to allow employees, stakeholders and Committee (FIC) comprises four comprises three Directors, including Committee (HRMC) comprises four
the general public to report concerns Directors. Its responsibilities are the Chairman of the Board. The Directors, including the Chairman of
that have significant impact on the broadly categorised into Finance Committee’s main focus is to ensure the Board. Its responsibilities include
Board and its operations, locally and and Fund Management. It endorses the effectiveness of the Board and providing guidance on leadership
overseas. The policy aims to encourage STB’s work plans and budget before Board Committees. To ensure that the development and talent management
the reporting of such matters in submission to the Board for approval. Board has the appropriate balance of matters; reviewing compensation
good faith, with the confidence that The Committee approves tenders skills and experience to deal with the policies and structures to ensure
persons making such reports will be as part of tender committee, and strategic issues and challenges facing competitiveness; endorsing the
treated fairly and, to the fullest extent expenditures in accordance to the the STB, the Governance Committee promotion of officers to or within
possible, protected from reprisals. All STB’s Financial Regulations. It also reviews the appointments and Salary Grade 15 and above (i.e. the
whistleblowing reports, including the approves any proposed changes to renewals of Directors, and provides equivalent of Superscale Grades in the
identity of the whistleblower will be the STB’s Financial Regulations. It recommendations where possible. Civil Service); the assessment of the
treated with confidentiality. Reports approves the STB’s investment policy, It also assumes the responsibility for STB’s performance report to the Board
can be lodged directly to the Head of objectives, guidelines, strategies conducting an annual evaluation of the Members; and reviewing any appeal
STB Internal Audit via email and appointment of external fund Board’s effectiveness. against all disciplinary action.
at ethics@stb.gov.sg. manager(s) in respect of surplus funds
available for financial investments and
reviews these matters at least once a
year. The Committee also ensures that
financial investments are conducted in
compliance with statutory legislation
and government directives.