

--- PAGE 1 ---

A N N U A L
R E P O R T
2023 – 2024
CCeelleebbrraattiinngg
60 YEARS
OF TOURISM EXCELLENCE

--- PAGE 2 ---

CCoonntteennttss
About Singapore Tourism Board 3
• Vision & Mission
• Values
• An Interconnected World
Chairman’s Message 10
Chief Executive’s Message 15
Board of Directors 19
Senior Management 25
Business Groups 26
Tourism Sector Performance 32
Tourism Highlights 36
• Delivering Quality Experiences
• Building Industry Capabilities
• Telling A Great Story
Sustainability Report 76
Corporate Governance 100
Financial Statements 106
Southernmost Point of Continental Asia

--- PAGE 3 ---

AAbboouutt
SINGAPORE
TOURISM
BOARD
Vision & Mission
Values
An Interconnected World
Joo Chiat, Koon Seng Road

--- PAGE 4 ---

About
Singapore
Tourism Board
ABOUT SINGAPORE
TOURISM BOARD
Singapore Tourism Board (STB) is a
statutory board under the Ministry
of Trade and Industry of Singapore.
It is the lead development agency
for tourism, one of Singapore’s key
economic sectors.
Together with industry partners and
the community, it shapes a dynamic
Singapore tourism landscape, and
brings the Passion Made Possible
brand to life by differentiating
Singapore as a vibrant destination
that inspires people to share and
deepen their passions. STB ensures
that tourism remains an important
and vibrant economic pillar through
long-term strategic planning, and by
forging partnerships, driving innovation
and promoting excellence in the
tourism sector.
Orchard Road
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 4

--- PAGE 5 ---

About
Singapore
Tourism Board
MISSION
TO SHAPE A DYNAMIC TOURISM LANDSCAPE
FOR SINGAPORE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
INDUSTRY AND COMMUNITY
VISION
A VIBRANT AND INSPIRING
DESTINATION SINGAPORE THAT
WE ARE PROUD OF
Lower and Upper Peirce Park
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 5

--- PAGE 6 ---

About
Singapore
Tourism Board
VALUES
CARE COURAGE INTEGRITY TEAM
Care for One Another Dare to Speak Behave Responsibly Succeed as a Team
We show empathy and care We speak up and share our We are reliable, fair and We take responsibility for our
through supportive actions thoughts with conviction and honest in our dealings with individual roles and work together
and encouraging words respect towards others. our stakeholders, partners and to contribute to STB’s success.
for one another and colleagues. We uphold the We appreciate and recognise
the community. Board’s reputation. everyone’s effort and celebrate
success together.
Dare to Dream
Nurture One Another
We challenge traditions, norms PASSION Bond as a Team
and assumptions with fresh ideas
We promote a nurturing
and perspectives. We take bold Believe in Our Purpose We seek to understand and
environment by supporting,
steps to experiment and translate respect individual differences.
helping out and looking out for
We are energetic, driven and
ideas into plans for the future. We make time to have fun
one another.
believe in the purpose of
together and put smiles on one
our work.
another’s faces.
Respect for One Another Dare to Do
Driven to Excel Learn as a Team
We respect one another by We endeavour to make a
listening to other points of difference. We believe in We love what we do and take We learn from one another
view with an open mind and making wise decisions in every pride in delivering impactful by sharing knowledge and
recognising the contribution/ circumstance, even if it means and quality work. resources and learning from
effort of one another. taking calculated risks in difficult successes/failures to achieve
or unclear situations. team success together.
Gardens by the Bay – Flower Dome
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 6

--- PAGE 7 ---

Regional
Offices
AN INTERCONNECTED WORLD
STB’s mandate to grow AMERICAS EUROPE
Singapore’s tourism
sector is reinforced by a
Americas, San Francisco United Kingdom, London Belgium, Brussels
robust overseas presence.
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Our global network
999 Baker Way, Suite 120 Singapore Centre 143/4 Avenue Louise
of 19 offices and two
San Mateo, California 94404 First Floor, Southwest House 1050 Brussels
marketing representatives/ United States of America 11A Regent Street Belgium
London, SW1Y 4LR
PR agencies promotes
United Kingdom
Singapore as a destination
in seven key regions. Americas, New York City Germany, Frankfurt France, Paris
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
589 Fifth Avenue, Suite 710 WestendDUO Marketing Representative
New York, NY 10017 Bockenheimer Landstr. 24 Interface Tourism France
United States of America D-60323 Frankfurt, Germany 16 Rue Ballu
75009 Paris, France
Peranakan Museum
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 7

--- PAGE 8 ---

Regional
Offices
AN INTERCONNECTED WORLD
INDIA, MIDDLE EAST
GREATER CHINA & SOUTH ASIA NORTH ASIA
Beijing Chengdu India, Mumbai Japan, Tokyo
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 3101-3106 Unit 2102, Raffles City Chengdu Tower 2 Singapore Centre #3414 Marunouchi Building
China World Tower 1 No. 3 Section 4, South Renmin Road Unit 216-217, The Capital 2-4-1 Marunouchi
No.1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Chengdu 610041 Bandra Kurla Complex Chiyoda-ku
Beijing 100004 People's Republic of China Bandra (East) Tokyo 100-6334, Japan
People’s Republic of China Mumbai 400051, India
Shanghai Taipei India, New Delhi Korea, Seoul
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Unit 1006-1008, LuOne Marketing Representative Singapore Centre Singapore Centre
218 Xujiahui Road, DeVries Global Taipei Unit 4A, 4th Floor 3F Seoul Finance Center
Huangpu District 達睿思國際傳播諮詢 Aria Tower 136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu
Shanghai 200020 Rm. 1900, 19F., No. 2, Ln. 150, JW Marriott Asset Area 4 Seoul 04520, South Korea
People’s Republic of China Sec. 5, Xinyi Rd., Xinyi Dist., Delhi Aerocity
Taipei City 110416 Hospitality District
Guangzhou New Delhi 110037, India
Singapore Tourism Board
25/F-01A, Tower A, GDH BCC,
No. 21 Zhujiang Road West,
Tianhe District, Guangzhou
Guangdong 510627
People's Republic of China
Gardens by the Bay – Cloud Forest
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 8

--- PAGE 9 ---

Regional
Offices
AN INTERCONNECTED WORLD
OCEANIA SOUTHEAST ASIA
Australia, Sydney Indonesia, Jakarta Philippines, Manila
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
11th Floor AWA Building 19th Floor, Unit 01 Unit 704, Ayala Triangle Gardens Tower 2
47 York Street Maya Pada Tower 1 Ayala Avenue cor. Paseo de Roxas
Sydney NSW 2000, Australia Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 28 Makati City, Philippines 1226
Jakarta 12920, Indonesia
Indonesia, Surabaya Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh City
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Pakuwon Tower Unit 03, 11th Floor
Unit 2101, Level 21 Saigon Centre, Tower 2
Jalan Embong Malang No. 21-31 67 Le Loi, District 1
Surabaya, Indonesia 60261 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Malaysia & Brunei
Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Centre
Lot 4-6-1, Level 4
Equatorial Plaza
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
CapitaSpring
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 9

--- PAGE 10 ---

To remain competitive, CHAIRMAN’S
it is crucial for us to
MESSAGE
continue supporting
our industry partners
in enhancing their
capabilities and HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE
RECOVERY OF SINGAPORE’S TOURISM
identifying appealing
SECTOR IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2023?
and innovative tourism
In 2023, Singapore continued to experience a robust recovery
offerings for Singapore.
in tourism with 13.6 million international visitors returning to our
shores. Although tourist numbers have not returned to 2019
levels yet, tourism receipts of $27.2 billion marked a strong
Mr Olivier Lim
recovery to 2019 performance. We are cautiously optimistic
Chairman
that the recovery momentum will continue into 2024. We expect
Singapore Tourism Board
to welcome between 15 to 16.5 million international visitors
and achieve $27.5 billion to $29 billion in tourism receipts,
surpassing the levels seen in 2019.
Despite the positive outlook, headwinds are expected due to
intensifying competition and the restoration of flight capacity
to other destinations. Competing destinations are making
substantial investments in new offerings and infrastructure to
attract visitors worldwide.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 10

--- PAGE 11 ---

Chairman’s
Message
HOW SHOULD SINGAPORE RESPOND TO THE COMPETITION?
Source: Changi Airport Group
In addition to the intensifying competition, it is clear that travellers coming to As we respond to the challenges with specific ideas, we must never forget
Singapore are increasingly sophisticated and well-travelled. Our attractions that the bedrock of our strategy is to continue to nurture diversified source
and events need to be increasingly differentiated to drive visitorship. They markets and attractions to withstand the many external and unpredictable
need to be unique globally, or first in Asia, or shine a spotlight on what is factors that affect tourism and travel. Over the last few decades, this reality
unique in Singapore’s rich tapestry. We have many “pearls” in Singapore that has been experienced constantly. This diversification has enabled us to be
can be coordinated and activated thematically to enhance both our domestic agile and recover quickly after the pandemic despite the different trajectories
and tourism objectives. We are working closely with our many partners and of country and travel policies, airline ramp up, manpower and other economic
stakeholders on these ideas. To remain competitive, it is crucial for us to and behavioural factors.
continue supporting our industry partners in enhancing their capabilities and
identifying appealing and innovative tourism offerings for Singapore.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 11

--- PAGE 12 ---

Chairman’s
Message
HOW IS STB ACTIVELY DRIVING THE FUTURE GROWTH OF TOURISM?
STB consistently monitors emerging and macro trends to identify new In the mid- to long-term, we are continuing to invest in key infrastructure
opportunities to drive future growth. For instance, maintaining overall well- projects to appeal to a wider target audience base. The successful opening
being, both physical and mental, are becoming important considerations for of Bird Paradise in May 2023 is a testament to this commitment, and we are
consumers when they travel. Recognising Singapore’s potential as an urban looking forward to the opening of the upcoming Rainforest Wild attraction and
wellness destination, we are strategically integrating wellness concepts Rainforest Resort in 2025. Furthermore, the upcoming Porsche Experience
across the city. By early 2025, Dempsey will see two new wellness concepts, Centre (PEC), Singapore’s first permanent driving-focused facility, is set to
and we have also launched a tender for the development of a new wellness open in 2027. This will enhance our array of lifestyle attractions and drive
attraction at Marina South. footfall to new locations such as Changi.
Dempsey Hill Porsche Experience Centre
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 12

--- PAGE 13 ---

Chairman’s
Message
HOW ARE SUSTAINABILITY AND TECHNOLOGY BEING INCORPORATED INTO STB’S PLANS?
Gardens by the Bay HeadRock VR
Since the appointment of a Chief Sustainability Officer and the establishment Looking ahead, climate change will pose increasing challenges to STB and the
of the Sustainable Tourism Office in 2022, we have made significant progress tourism sector. Rising temperatures and extreme weather conditions could
in driving Singapore’s Sustainable Tourism Strategy and our vision of impact tourism operations and the overall visitor experience, particularly for
Singapore as a City in Nature, where large experiences come with small outdoor events and attractions. STB is mindful of these challenges brought
footprints. about by climate change and will continue to monitor and introduce measures
to mitigate these effects.
Our Sustainable Tourism Strategy is aligned with the Singapore Green Plan
2030, outlining actionable plans for the tourism industry. In collaboration with On the technology front, we are actively exploring emerging technologies
the respective industry associations, sustainability roadmaps and industry- such as Generative AI, which is expected to revolutionise the tourism sector
specific standards for Hotels and MICE have been developed to guide the through task automation, personalised customer experiences, and predictive
industry towards sustainability outcomes. This ensures that our tourism analytics for more efficient business strategies. STB is investing resources
to raise awareness of this technology among tourism businesses to trial
sector is well-prepared to seize upside opportunities and manage downside
different applications, and aim to partner stakeholders to develop proofs
risks in an increasingly carbon-constrained operating environment.
of concepts. STB’s Tcube, a one-stop resource for digital transformation,
At the organisation level, we published our inaugural integrated sustainability has played a pivotal role in accelerating the adoption of new technologies
annual report for financial year 2023 and I am pleased to announce that STB across the sector, assisting over 1,110 tourism companies in their digital
met all GreenGov.SG environmental targets for the year. transformation journey.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 13

--- PAGE 14 ---

Chairman’s
Message
CAN YOU ELABORATE ON HOW STB IS HELPING INDUSTRY PARTNERS PREPARE FOR THE FUTURE?
STB continues to dedicate resources to future-proof our tourism
sector to ensure sustainable and productive growth. We recently
launched the Tourism (Attractions) Industry Digital Plan (IDP),
jointly developed with the Infocomm Media Development
Authority, to guide attractions in assessing their digital readiness
and identifying digital solutions at different stages of growth.
Complementing the IDP, STB has also introduced the Attractions
Technology Roadmap, enabling attractions to delve deeper into
adopting the solutions listed in the IDP through case studies and
key considerations for implementation.
In the hotel industry, STB is supporting our partners through
the launch of the Hotels Job Transformation Map (JTM), guiding
employers and employees towards the ‘Hotel of Tomorrow’ vision,
where hotels are seen as destinations in themselves through novel
concepts and thoughtfully designed spaces. Powered by three
emerging areas, Sustainability, Technology and Placemaking, the
JTM aims to equip hotels with strategies to prepare their workforce
for future job roles as the industry embarks on the next phase
of growth.
Another area to nurture is to develop our "software" - this involves
the talent, creativity and skills to be able to envision, develop,
and execute events and attractions. We are proud to see an Future World, ArtScience Museum
increasingly capable group of international and home-grown
organisations creating world-class initiatives and attractions in
Singapore, and we look forward to pursuing more.
The tourism outlook is bright, and I am confident that STB,
together with our industry partners and friends, can elevate
Singapore’s tourism sector to greater heights.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 14

--- PAGE 15 ---

CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Together with our
industry partners, we
MESSAGE
will continue to make
Singapore a great
WHAT ARE SOME KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR place to live, work and
SINGAPORE’S TOURISM SECTOR IN FINANCIAL
play as we write more
YEAR 2023?
extraordinary chapters
Over the past year, we have enhanced Singapore’s attractiveness as an
in our tourism story.
exceptional business and leisure destination through a diverse lineup of
events, attractions and experiences.
Ms Melissa Ow
Notably, we concluded the year with a strong lineup of entertainment acts
Chief Executive
and events. From January to March 2024, we welcomed a series of sold-out
Singapore Tourism Board
concerts featuring global music artistes, including Coldplay, Ed Sheeran,
and Taylor Swift who performed six sold-out concerts in Singapore as part
of her Eras Tour. Other events include SneakerCon SEA, LIV Golf, and T100
Singapore. The 2023 Formula 1 Singapore Grand Prix continues to be a
crowd favourite, which attracted more than 264,000 attendees over the
three day race weekend.
2023 also saw the opening of new attractions targeted at the adrenaline-
seekers, such as HyperDrive, a gamified electric Go-Kart experience at
Sentosa, and TRIFECTA, Asia’s first surf-snow-skate attraction, located
along Orchard Road.
Our global reputation and capabilities as a business hub were further
enhanced through the successful hosting of several significant MICE
events held in Singapore for the first time. These included the 25th World
Congress Dermatology 2023, Million Dollar Round Table Global Conference
2023, and International Trademark Association 2023 Annual Meeting Live+.
Additionally, Singapore’s significance as a MICE hub for international trade
was underscored by major events such as Vinexpo Asia, Bar Convent
Singapore and Transport Logistics Southeast Asia.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 15

--- PAGE 16 ---

Chief
Executive’s
Message
HOW ARE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS PLAYING INTO SINGAPORE’S
TOURISM LANDSCAPE?
JEWEL CHANGI AIRPORT GARDENS BY THE BAY
As more people seek purposeful and inspirational travel experiences, it is how Singapore can help companies make a lasting impact on the environment,
crucial to refresh our destination brand messaging and identify collaboration business and society.
opportunities with strategic partners to build destination mindshare amongst
our target audience. In line with this, we launched the ‘Made in Singapore’ We have also expanded our partnerships with leading media and entertainment
(MIS) international marketing campaign in September 2023, using creative companies, including a collaboration with Warner Music Singapore to feature
storytelling to showcase the breadth and depth of Singapore’s offerings, local artiste Nathan Hartono profiling some of our iconic locations as well as
transforming ordinary experiences into extraordinary ones. The MIS campaign hidden gems. Together with former F1 world champion Jenson Button, we
assets, consisting of a film, key visuals and social assets, kick-started a showcased exhilarating experiences in Singapore, leveraging his extensive
series of marketing initiatives, including celebrity engagements and strategic reach and love for speed and thrill. Into our third year of partnership with
partnerships, culminating in out-of-home activations in key cities such as Warner Bros. Discovery, we collaborated on the first ever localised Tom and
New York, London, Shanghai, Jakarta and Mumbai. Jerry series, which premiered in August 2023 on Cartoon Network in Asia
Pacific, and HBO GO in Southeast Asia, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
On the Business Travel and Meetings, Incentive Travel, Conventions and
Exhibitions (BTMICE) front, we also launched the Best Global MICE City Strategic partnerships with Singapore Airlines Group, DBS, CapitaLand,
B2B marketing campaign. The campaign not only affirmed Singapore’s Trip.com, Klook and other industry partners have enabled STB to expand
position as a gateway to Asia and the leading destination of choice for our reach to new consumers, network for exchanging consumer insights and
industries such as innovation, technology and research, but also showcased deepen our understanding of traveller profiles.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 16

--- PAGE 17 ---

Chief
Executive’s
Message
WHAT ELSE IS STB DOING TO STRENGTHEN THE TOURISM SECTOR?
Besides our efforts to foster digital transformation among our tourism graduates, career starters and mid-career switchers. The campaign aimed
businesses, we are focusing efforts to provide manpower support and raise to raise awareness and interest in careers within the tourism sector by
capabilities within the sector. This includes support for the Career Conversion showcasing the diversity of jobs available. The initial phase of the campaign’s
Programme for Tourism Professionals under Workforce Singapore, facilitating efforts featured professionals from the Attractions, Hospitality and MICE
industries, offering a behind-the-scenes glimpse into their respective careers.
hiring, training new staff, and reskilling existing workers across key industries
As it is imperative that we attract and retain talent for the tourism sector, we
such as hotels, MICE, attractions, and tours.
will continue the Tourism Careers Campaign in 2024, and hope to inspire
We launched the Tourism Careers Campaign in 2023, targeting local and build the next generation of tourism leaders.
Tourism Careers Campaign
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 17

--- PAGE 18 ---

Chief
Executive’s
Message
WHAT’S ON THE HORIZON FOR SINGAPORE’S TOURISM INDUSTRY?
With Singapore Airlines commencing flight services to Brussels in April 2024 Despite increased competition from destinations around the world, we are
and London’s Gatwick Airport in June 2024, there is great potential for excited about the future of Singapore’s tourism landscape as we chart our
Singapore’s growth in the Europe and UK markets. Closer to home, new ambitions ahead. Reflecting on our milestones and achievements over the
Southeast Asian carriers are set to operate from Changi Airport, expanding past year, I am confident that together with our industry partners, we will
direct connections to and from Singapore. continue to make Singapore a great place to live, work and play as we write
more extraordinary chapters in our tourism story.
We can also expect our tourism sector to grow with the expansion of our
two integrated resorts. At Marina Bay Sands (MBS), a new fourth tower will
offer all-suite luxury hotel rooms, an arena with 15,000 seats for world-class
entertainment possibilities, additional MICE spaces, and a rooftop attraction
open to the public. There are also ongoing developments planned for Resorts
World Singapore (RWS), including the Harry Potter: Visions of Magic scheduled
to open at the end of 2024, as well as Universal Studios Singapore’s Minion
Land and Singapore Oceanarium, both set to open in 2025.
Singapore’s offerings for tourists will continue to expand and diversify with
the opening of new hotels and attractions over the next few years. We have
a robust schedule of top-quality pop culture, lifestyle, and music events that
will appeal to a range of audiences, and also look forward to the debut of
Disney Adventure’s cruises out of Singapore in 2025.
Sustainable tourism is becoming a priority for the tourism sector worldwide.
To ensure that sustainability remains a two-way conversation with the
industry, the annual Sustainable Tourism Conversations and the Tourism
Sustainability Programme serve as platforms for STB to work together with
the industry to advance the sustainability interests of the sector as a whole.
STB is also dedicated to fostering a sustainable organisational culture,
cultivating a sustainable mindset in our people to not only position ourselves
to continually achieve the GreenGov.SG targets as an organisation, but also
enable us to guide the industry towards sustainable tourism. Merlion – Fireworks at Marina Bay
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 18

--- PAGE 19 ---

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr Olivier Lim Ms Melissa Ow
Chairman Chief Executive
Mr Olivier Lim was appointed Chairman of Ms Melissa Ow assumed the appointment of Chief
STB in January 2024. He is currently Lead Executive of the Singapore Tourism Board (STB)
Independent Director of DBS Group Holdings on 1 June 2023.
Ltd and DBS Bank Ltd, Chairman of StarHub
From 2020 to 2023, Ms Ow served as the
Ltd, and Director of Raffles Medical Group.
Executive Vice President for Customer Experience,
Prior to this, Mr Lim was also Chairman of Marketing & Investment Facilitation Group at the
PropertyGuru Group Ltd, Certis CISCO Security Economic Development Board (EDB), where she
Pte Ltd, ASX listed Australand Holdings Limited, played a key role in transforming the organisation’s
Frasers Property Australia, globalORE Pte Ltd, B2B sales and marketing model. She drove the
Mount Faber Leisure Group, and the Advisory global promotion of Singapore’s business brand
Council of the Singapore CFO Institute. and EDB’s marketing and communications in
key markets such as Europe, the US, China,
He has also held directorships in several
and Japan. Through enhancing EDB’s customer
SGX-listed companies including Banyan
engagement capabilities, she led her teams to
Tree Holdings, CapitaMalls Asia, and served
raise new investments from foreign companies.
on the Boards of JTC Corporation, Sentosa
Development Corporation and the Accounting Prior to EDB, Ms Ow held several positions in STB
and Corporate Regulatory Authority. with the last position as Deputy Chief Executive,
where she led STB to put Singapore on the world
map for hosting premier events and attracting major
tourism investments. As Deputy Chief Executive,
she headed the Experience Development Group
and the Corporate Group and was responsible
for ensuring that Singapore had a strong line-up
of quality tourism products spanning from events,
dining, retail, and sports to entertainment, new
tourism concepts development, and precincts
development. Ms Ow also oversaw STB’s
corporate functions such as legal, procurement
and corporate administration, finance, and
human resources.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 19

--- PAGE 20 ---

Board of
Directors
Mr Amrin Amin Ms Audrey Kuah
Mr Amrin Amin is the Head of Corporate Development Ms Audrey Kuah is currently the APAC Co-Chief
at Temasek Foundation. Executive Officer of VML, where she oversees the
creative and strategic growth of the business across
Mr Amin was Senior Parliamentary Secretary for the
the APAC region. VML was formed through the merger
Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health,
of Wunderman Thompson and VML Y&R globally. Prior
and Member of Parliament for Sembawang GRC from
to this, she served as Head, Group Marketing, Global
2015 to 2020.
Consumer Financial Services of OCBC Bank, where
Prior to political office, he was a corporate lawyer she drove business and growth-focused marketing
in Singapore and New York, specialising in mergers initiatives.
and acquisitions, strategic investments and corporate
As the former Executive Director of Media Practice
restructurings.
– Dentsu Aegis Network Asia Pacific, she was
responsible for the evolution of the business model and
future capabilities. She was also Managing Director
of Dentsu Aegis’ Group’s first global R&D centre,
Global Data Innovation Centre, located in Singapore,
where she was responsible for the development of
proprietary and future-forward marketing platforms
Mr Arthur Lang
that combined machine learning, artificial intelligence,
cloud technology and the deep marketing expertise
Mr Arthur Lang is the Group Chief Financial Officer of
of Dentsu Group.
Singtel. His responsibilities include the management
of the International Group that oversees the Group’s Ms Kuah’s expertise in marketing, digital, marketing
regional associates and its portfolio of strategic telecom technology and advertising has been deployed across
investments. He spearheads Singtel’s ongoing digital industries and geographies for
bank joint venture with Grab. more than three decades.
Ms Kuah is active in the
Before joining Singtel, Mr Lang was the Group CFO
industry and was most
of CapitaLand, where he also ran CapitaLand’s real
recently on the board of
estate investment management business. Prior to
the Intellectual Property
CapitaLand, he was at Morgan Stanley where he was
Office of Singapore
Co-head of the Southeast Asia investment banking
International.
division and Chief Operating Officer of the Asia Pacific
investment banking division.
Mr Lang was appointed as Chairman of the National
Kidney Foundation in November 2020. He is also a
board member of India-listed Bharti Airtel, Thailand-
listed Intouch Holdings and AIS, GXS Digital Bank and
the Straits Times School Pocket Money Fund.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 20

--- PAGE 21 ---

Board of
Directors
Mr Lee Seow Hiang
Mr Lee Seow Hiang is the Chairman of the National
Library Board and sits on the Board of NTUC FairPrice
Co-operative Ltd.
Mr Lee was the immediate past CEO of Changi
Airport Group and was concurrently, amongst others,
Deputy Chairman of Changi Airports International Pte
Ltd, Director of Jewel Changi Airport Holding Pte Ltd
and Chairman of Changi Foundation Board. He also
held the appointment of President of Airports Council
International (ACI) Asia-Pacific Regional Board and was
a Member on the ACI World Governing Board.
Mr Rajeev Menon
From 1989 to 2005, Mr Lee held various appointments
in the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) and
the Ministry of Defence, with his last appointment Having spent over 23 years of his career with Marriott
being Deputy Head of Air Operations in HQ RSAF. International, Mr Rajeev Menon is currently President for
From 2005 to 2008, he was the Principal Private Marriott International, Asia Pacific excluding China (APEC),
Dr Ho Kaiwei Secretary to Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew in the based in Singapore. He is responsible for the overall
Prime Minister’s Office. business performance and development of the company
Dr Ho Kaiwei started out his career as a medical across 22 countries and territories in the Asia Pacific region
doctor in the public sector. After completing his with over 570 operating hotels & resorts under 24 unique
training as a Public Health physician, he has rotated brands. Marriott also has one of the largest pipelines in the
through various divisions in the Ministry of Health. He region with over 340 hotels under development.
assumed the role of Director (Operations Policy and Mr Menon has been recognised over the years through
Strategy Development) in the Ministry of Manpower in numerous awards including Young General Manager of
2015 before joining the Ministry of Finance as Director the Year in 2003 by the Indian Hotel and Restaurant
(Security & Resilience Programmes) from 2018 to 2023. Association, GM of the Year by Marriott International and
He joined the Ministry of Health as Deputy Secretary Hall of Fame Award in 2017 for his contribution to the
(Services) in 2023. hotel industry in India.
Dr Ho graduated from the Faculty of Medicine, National A lifelong learner, Mr Menon completed his education
University of Singapore in 2005. He completed his in Hotel Management in New Delhi and as of 2018,
Master of Public Health at the Harvard School of completed the Advanced Management Program (AMP)
Public Health in 2011. He is a Fellow of the Academy from Harvard Business School.
of Medicine Singapore.
Today, apart from overseeing Marriott’s business in APEC,
He is a member of the Board for the Agency for Mr Menon is a Chairman of the Financial Investment
Integrated Care, ALPS Healthcare. Committee. He is also a Board member of the US/ASEAN
Business Council and Singapore Hotel Association.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 21

--- PAGE 22 ---

Board of
Directors
Ms Soh Siew Choo Mrs Wong Ai Ai
Ms Soh Siew Choo is the Chief Information Officer Mrs Wong Ai Ai, until her retirement in July 2023, was
for Asia at Metlife. She is responsible for the end-to- the Principal in Baker & McKenzie Wong & Leow.
end technology delivery partnering with the business
During her three-decades-long career with Baker
to build leading digital experiences for customers.
Mckenzie (Firm), she led a range of landmark transactions
Prior to Metlife, Ms Soh was the Head of Technology for blue-chip clients, and served in global management
for Consumer Banking & Big Data/AI at DBS Bank. She and leadership roles at the highest levels of the Firm,
was responsible for driving the digital transformation including serving as a member of the Global Executive
and AI-driven agenda adopting truly Agile ways of Ms Thien Kwee Eng Committee and Chair of the Asia Pacific region.
working and cloud native architecture. As a transactional lawyer, Mrs Wong has been recognised
Ms Soh has over two decades of experience in Ms Thien Kwee Eng is the Chief Executive Officer of as a leading individual and eminent practitioner for
senior technology leadership roles in the Corporate Sentosa Development Corporation (SDC). As SDC’s corporate/M&A matters by publications including
& Investment Bank, working for JPMorgan across CEO, Ms Thien steers the vision and development of Chambers Asia Pacific, Legal 500 Asia Pacific and
Singapore, Tokyo and Hong Kong prior to joining Sentosa as a leading and unique leisure destination IFLR1000.
DBS. for both locals and tourists, as well as the landmark Mrs Wong was a founding steering committee member of
Sentosa-Brani Master Plan to redevelop the two Climate Governance Singapore Limited (now known as
She is also an avid advocate of Women in Technology,
islands into a game-changing leisure and tourism CG Sing), an initiative led by the World Economic Forum
driving many innovative initiatives in the areas of
destination. to educate non-executive directors on the opportunities
mentorship, allyship, recruitment and retention
and challenges for their companies arising from climate
amongst others. She was named as an honoree in Prior to this, Ms Thien was the Executive Vice President
change and its consequences. She stepped down as a
the Women Leaders in AI award by IBM in 2019 and of the Singapore Economic Development Board
Director of CG Sing in October 2023.
2021. She was also recognised as an awardee in the (EDB) overseeing EDB’s global customer experience,
inaugural Singapore 100 Women in Tech in 2020, marketing and investment facilitation activities. Mrs Wong is a Justice of the Peace, a
organised by IMDA/Singapore Computer Society. Ms Thien has held leadership roles in investment member of the Public Service Commission’s
In addition, Ms Soh was conferred promotion and industry development across various Disciplinary Panel of Persons and a
with the Distinguished sectors during her time in EDB, including Consumer member of the Board of Visiting Judges
Computing Alumni Service and Lifestyle businesses, Health and Wellness, as well and Board of Inspection appointed by
Award, from her alma as Infocomm and Media. She has also led corporate- the Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore.
wide initiatives to catalyse new business creation and
mater, National University She graduated from the University of
innovation in large corporations.
of Singapore (NUS) School Kent, with a Bachelor of Arts in
of Computing, for bringing From 2000 to 2001, Ms Thien was the Business Law First Class Honours, and
honour to NUS in her Development Director of Asiacontent.com’s business holds a Master of Law from
chosen endeavours in in China. She also served as First Secretary (Trade Harvard University Law School.
her career. and Industry) at the Embassy of Singapore in Beijing She is admitted to practice in
from 2001 to 2004 and was responsible for promoting Singapore, New York, England
Singapore-China trade and industry relations. and Wales (Grays Inn). Mrs Wong
is also a member of the Singapore
Ms Thien serves on the Board of the Singapore
Institute of Directors.
Food Agency.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 22

--- PAGE 23 ---

Board of
Directors
RETIRED BOARD MEMBERS
Mr Aaron Shahril Yusoff Maniam
Mr Aaron Shahril Yusoff Maniam is currently Fellow of
Practice and Director, Digital Transformation Education at
the Blavatnik School of Government, University of Oxford.
He served as Deputy Secretary (Industry and Information)
at the Ministry of Communications and Information from
1 January 2020 to 26 May 2023.
From September 2014 to September 2017, Mr Maniam
was Senior Director (Industry) at the Ministry of Trade and
Industry, where he was responsible for coordinating economic
policies and regulating the manufacturing, services and
tourism sectors, as well as overseeing long-term economic
transformation.
Mr Maniam has held various positions in the Civil Service,
including postings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the
Strategic Policy Office and Centre for Strategic Futures at
the Public Service Division.
Mr Aaron Maniam retired from the STB Board with effect
from 21 July 2023.
Mr Chaly Mah
Mr Chaly Mah worked at Deloitte for over 38 years. Prior
to his retirement on 31 May 2016, he was CEO of Deloitte
Asia Pacific and Chairman of Deloitte Singapore, and Vice
Chairman of Deloitte Global Board of Directors.
Mr Mah is currently Chairman of Surbana Jurong Group,
Netlink NBN Management Pte Ltd. He is also a board
member of Capitaland Limited, Flipkart Pte Ltd, Monetary
Authority of Singapore, National Environment Agency and
the National University of Singapore Board of Trustees.
Mr Chaly Mah retired from the STB Board with effect from
31 December 2023.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 23

--- PAGE 24 ---

Board of
Directors
Mr Lim Eng Hwee Mr Ravi Thakran
Mr Lim Eng Hwee is the Chief Executive Officer of Mr Ravi Thakran served in many senior roles in several
the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) since business verticals of the LVMH Group. Over two
1st September 2017. URA is Singapore’s national decades at LVMH, Mr Thakran served as President,
planning agency, responsible for the physical planning Sephora Asia, CEO for LVMH Watches & Jewelry Asia
and urban development of Singapore. and eventually assumed the roles of Group President
for LVMH Asia in 2008 and Group Chairman for LVMH
Mr Lim was formerly the Chief Planner and Deputy Chief
Asia in 2014.
Executive Officer of URA from 2009 to 2017. He has
extensive experience in urban planning, urban design, Mr Thakran also founded L Capital Asia in 2008 and led
implementation of land use policies and development it as Chairman and Managing Partner from its inception.
initiatives. He also served in the Ministry of National L Capital Asia went on to become one of the largest
Development and Ministry of Trade and Industry. consumer-focused growth investors in Asia.
He served as a member in the Boards of Land With L Capital Asia, Mr Thakran invested in over
Transport Authority, Singapore Cooperation Enterprise, 42 companies across Asia Pacific. Seven of these
Singapore Science Centre and International Federation companies crossed $1 billion in annual revenues.
for Housing and Planning. He currently sits on the Mr Thakran served on the board of several of these
Board of National Environment Agency. companies, including seven listed companies on
Shanghai, Hong Kong, Korea and Indian stock
Mr Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Planning from
exchanges and as Chairman of the board for five others.
the University of Auckland. He also holds a Master’s
in Public Administration from Harvard University and Prior to his time at LVMH, Mr Thakran held senior Corps. He is also involved in the Federal Commission
attended the Wharton Advanced management positions at the Swatch Group, Nike and on Fashion and Women’s Wellness in the Kingdom
Management Program at the the Tata Group. of Saudi Arabia, Indian Partition Museum, Amritsar,
University of Pennsylvania. Indian Heritage Museum, Singapore and Save the
Beyond his corporate responsibilities, Mr. Thakran
Rhino Project, South Africa.
Mr Lim Eng Hwee retired from serves on Board of Harrods London, Director of Wheels
the STB Board with effect Up, Business Ambassador for Latin America in South Mr Ravi Thakran retired from the STB Board with effect
from 31 December 2023. East Asia, and Trustee of the Global Conservation from 31 December 2023.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 24

--- PAGE 25 ---

Senior
Management
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Ms Melissa Ow
Chief Executive
Mr Yap Chin Siang
Deputy Chief Executive
Corporate Group &
Experience Development Group
Ms Juliana Kua
Assistant Chief Executive
Mr Wong Ming Fai
& World Expo Advisor Mr Kenneth Lim
Ms Ong Huey Hong
International Group
Chief Technology Officer & QSM
Assistant Chief Executive
Assistant Chief Executive & Technology Transformation Group
Marketing Group
Chief Sustainability Officer
Policy and Planning Group
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 25

--- PAGE 26 ---

Business
Groups
CORPORATE GROUP
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Aileen Wong
Deputy Chief Executive Director
Corporate Group & Experience Human Resources & Mr Evan Koh
Development Group Organisation Development
Ms Ong Siew Hwee Director
Legal
Director
Finance
Mr Alfred Chiam
Head
Ms Hazel Teh Internal Audit*
Chairman’s Office
Director
Compliance & Corporate Services
* The Internal Audit reports functionally to the
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC)
and administratively to the Chief Executive
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 26

--- PAGE 27 ---

Business
Groups
EXPERIENCE DEVELOPMENT GROUP
Mr Yap Chin Siang
Mr Poh Chi Chuan
Deputy Chief Executive
Dr Edward Koh
Corporate Group &
Executive Director
Executive Director Experience Development Group
Exhibitions & Conferences
Conventions, Meetings Ms Guo Teyi
& Incentive Travel
Director
Ms Ashlynn Loo
Retail & Dining
Director
Ms Ong Ling Lee
Attractions, Entertainment
& Tourism Concept Development
Executive Director
Sports & Wellness
Ms Lim Shoo Ling
Director
Arts & Cultural Precincts
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 27

--- PAGE 28 ---

Business
Groups
INTERNATIONAL
GROUP
Mr Andrew Phua Ms Juliana Kua
Chief Representative & Assistant Chief Executive
Executive Director & World Expo Advisor
Mr Markus Tan
Ms Goh Kershing Greater China International Group
Regional Director
Regional Director
India, Middle East,
Europe
South Asia & Africa
Mr Oliver Chong
Ms Rachel Loh
Executive Director
Senior Vice President International Group HQ & Oceania
Americas
Mr Terrence Voon
Ms Serene Tan
Executive Director
Southeast Asia Ms Carrie Kwik
Regional Director
North Asia
Executive Director
World Expo & Special Projects
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 28

--- PAGE 29 ---

Business
Groups
MARKETING GROUP
Mr Kenneth Lim
Ms Lilian Chee
Assistant Chief Executive
Director
Marketing Group
Industry Marketing
Ms Kwan Su Min
Ms Georgina Koh
Director
Communications Director
Marketing Activation
Ms Choo Huei Miin
Executive Director Mr John Gregory Conceicao
Brand
Executive Director
Marketing Partnerships,
Planning & Capability Development
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 29

--- PAGE 30 ---

Business
Groups
POLICY & PLANNING GROUP
Ms Ong Huey Hong
Ms Ranita
Assistant Chief Executive &
Sundramoorthy
Chief Sustainability Officer Ms Cherie Lee
Policy & Planning Group
Executive Director
Ms Tan Yen Nee Infrastructure Planning Director
Strategic Planning &
& Management
Executive Director Incentive Policy
Hospitality Ms Dong Limin
Director
Ms Jacqueline Ng Tourism Human Capital &
Sustainability
Director
Cruise
Ms Annie Chang
Executive Director
Travel Agents & Tourist Guides
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 30

--- PAGE 31 ---

Business
Groups
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFORMATION GROUP
Mr Wong Ming Fai
Ms Wong Chin Hwei
Chief Technology Officer & QSM
Technology Transformation Group Director
Ms Chew Chien Way
Information Services
Mr Simon Ang
Director
Industry Technology Transformation Director
The Collaboratory
Ms Serene Fong
Ms Jue Lu
Director
Director
Data Science & Analytics
Chief Experience Officer
Visitor Experience &
User Experience
Ms Shameem Mustaffa Centre of Excellence
Chief Data Officer &
Chief Records Officer
Data Strategy & Governance Office
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 31

--- PAGE 32 ---

TOURISM SECTOR
PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee
Old Hill Street Police Station

--- PAGE 33 ---

Tourism Sector
Performance 2023
OVERVIEW
In 2023, Tourism Receipts (TR) nearly doubled to reach S$27.16 billion,
representing a 92% increase from the previous year. International Visitor
Arrivals (IVA) also showed an increase of 116%, welcoming 13.6 million
visitors for the year.
TOURISM INTERNATIONAL
RECEIPTS VISITOR ARRIVALS
(S$BILLION) (MILLION PEOPLE)
27.69
27.16
19.12
13.60
14.18
6.31
4.83
2.74
1.89 0.33
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 33

--- PAGE 34 ---

Tourism Sector
Performance 2023
TOURISM RECEIPTS BY MAJOR COMPONENTS
Tourism receipts increased across all major components: Shopping (+78%), Accommodation (+51%),
F&B (+210%), SEG (+116%) and Other TR Components (+81%).
Food and Sightseeing,
Shopping Accommodation Other TR
Beverage Entertainment &
Components
(F&B) Gaming (SEG)
% Change vs 2022 +78% +51% +210% +116% +81%
% Share 18% 16% 15% 19% 32%
Tourism Receipts (S$B) 4.95 4.47 3.98 5.06 8.69
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 34

--- PAGE 35 ---

Tourism Sector
Performance 2023
TOURISM RECEIPTS BY MAJOR COMPONENTS, TOP 10 MARKETS
The top three markets comprised of China (S$3.09 billion), Indonesia (S$2.98 billion), and Australia
(S$2.01 billion). These three markets accounted for 37% of all tourism receipts excluding Sightseeing,
Entertainment and Gaming (SEG).
2023 TR Tourism Visitor
Shopping Accommodation Food and Other TR
(S$million) Receipts Arrivals
Beverage Components
(F&B)
Overall 22,091 22% 20% 18% 39% +87% +116%
China 3,090 27% 25% 22% 27% +412% +942%
Indonesia 2,980 33% 13% 12% 41% +73% +108%
Australia 2,010 12% 18% 12% 57% +84% +92%
India 1,520 25% 16% 18% 41% +42% +56%
USA 1,420 10% 23% 12% 54% +56% +101%
Malaysia 903 24% 21% 19% 36% +45% +84%
UK 860 8% 25% 13% 54% +59% +109%
Philippines 827 32% 16% 19% 34% +66% +81%
Japan 753 12% 25% 15% 48% +191% +228%
South Korea 701 20% 28% 19% 33% +112% +162%
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 35

--- PAGE 36 ---

TOURISM Delivering Quality
Experiences
HHiigghhlliigghhttss
Building Industry
Capabilities
Telling A Great Story
Singapore Sidecars Vespa Tour

--- PAGE 37 ---

DELIVERING
QUALITY
EXPERIENCES
Singapore has emerged as a top
choice for both business and
leisure travellers in the post-
pandemic landscape. With an
exciting year-round calendar of
events and a host of new and
refreshed offerings, Singapore
solidified its position as a leading
destination, captivating the hearts
of visitors from around the globe.
Emerald Hill Road
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 37

--- PAGE 38 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
The Meetings, Incentives, Conventions, and Exhibitions (MICE) industry saw a remarkable resurgence, hosting
several inaugural large-scale events that set the stage for a dynamic year of growth and innovation.
RECOVERY OF MICE INDUSTRY ZERO-WASTE BOOTH BY GLOBAL MICE
SUSTAINABILITY ALLIANCE
Gastech 2023 Pilot of Zero-waste Booth at Food & Hotel Asia-Food & Beverage 2023
Singapore saw a steady pipeline of major exhibitions and conferences, As a member of the Global MICE Sustainability Alliance, we rallied key
including the Singapore FinTech Festival, Asia Tech x Singapore stakeholders to test eco-friendly practices and affirm their dedication
(ATxSG) and Gastech. We also welcomed a few event debuts such to sustainability. For example, the Alliance introduced a zero-waste
as the Transport Logistics Southeast Asia, the first Southeast Asian exhibit at the Food & Hotel Asia-Food & Beverage, ATxSG, and the
edition of Transport Logistic & Air Cargo; Bar Convent Singapore, Singapore MICE Forum.
an international bar and beverages tradeshow that came to the Asia
Pacific region for the first time, and Ethereum Singapore.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 38

--- PAGE 39 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
SINGAPORE NAMED ASIA’S TOP CONVENTION CITY FOR 21 CONSECUTIVE YEARS
25th World Congress of Dermatology
Singapore secured 2nd position on the International Congress and Extravaganza as the largest post-pandemic meeting to date with
Convention Association (ICCA) Worldwide City Rankings 2023, over 19,000 foreign attendees.
advancing over 10 places from 2022 and achieving its highest ranking
These events reaffirmed the Singapore Exhibition & Convention
ever. Singapore also retained its position as Asia Pacific’s Top Meeting
Bureau’s (SECB) commitment to draw high-quality business events
City for 21 consecutive years. This recognition reinforces our position
aligned with Singapore’s growth and priority industries. In line
as a global business hub and world-class MICE destination.
with this, the Singapore Association of Convention and Exhibition
Several notable events were held which achieved record numbers, Organisers and Suppliers (SACEOS) launched their Best Practices
including the 25th World Congress of Dermatology as the largest for Internships in the MICE industry to raise internship standards
ever medical congress hosted in Singapore, and the Herbalife APAC and attract next-generation talent to the tourism sector.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 39

--- PAGE 40 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
The diverse hotel landscape saw new and refreshed concepts, signifying the industry's confidence in Singapore’s
robust tourism potential.
REJUVENATION OF THE HOTEL LANDSCAPE
Mondrian Singapore Duxton The Singapore EDITION Artyzen Singapore Mandarin Oriental, Singapore Conrad Singapore Orchard
Source: City Developments Limited
Singapore welcomed new hotels with unique lifestyle concepts, such industry saw further refreshes with the completion of refurbishment
as Mondrian Singapore Duxton, The Singapore EDITION and Artyzen works by Pan Pacific Orchard; Mandarin Oriental, Singapore and
Singapore, totalling more than 3,200 new room keys. The hotel Conrad Singapore Orchard.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 40

--- PAGE 41 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
REFRESHED OFFERINGS AT SINGAPORE’S INTEGRATED RESORTS
MBS Hotel Suite Maison Boulud Hotel Ora Gourmet Park
Marina Bay Sands (MBS) embarked on the second phase of its Resorts World Sentosa (RWS) launched Hotel Ora, a new lifestyle hotel
reinvestment programme. This includes upgrading all rooms and targeted at the bleisure (business-leisure) crowd. The hotel boasts
suites, enhancing the hotel lobby and Sands SkyPark, and introducing modern hybrid workspaces with smart co-working amenities. Also
new offerings from fine dining to health and wellness. new at RWS are Gourmet Park and VibranSEA at S.E.A. Aquarium,
an experiential space that blends science, technology and art, adding
Culinary experiences were refreshed with a gourmet food truck and
new dimensions to the aquarium experience. Visitors are taken on
container park, which comprised concepts by Michelin-starred and
an interactive trail where they learn about marine life.
award-winning chefs and restaurants, popular brands, and social
enterprises. The renowned French dining concept, Maison Boulud,
made its Singapore debut with a two-storey restaurant along the
Marina Bay waterfront promenade, adding to MBS' suite of distinctive
dining options.
Source: MBS photos by Marina Bay Sands and RWS photos by Resorts World Sentosa
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 41

--- PAGE 42 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
The cruise industry saw a strong recovery with a record two million passengers throughput from more than
340 ship calls, strengthening our position as a regional cruise hub.
CREATING BIGGER WAVES FOR
REGIONAL CRUISING
Singapore continues to attract cruise travellers and cruise
converts to our shores. We welcomed a variety of cruise
offerings, from contemporary to premium and luxury
brands. This includes the continuation of our year-round
homeports by Resorts World Cruises’ Genting Dream
and Royal Caribbean International’s Spectrum of the
Seas, seasonal homeport cruises with TUI, Marella, and
Silversea, as well as maiden port calls from Virgin Voyages
and Celebrity Cruises’ cruise ships.
Year-round homeports with a variety of cruise offerings
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 42

--- PAGE 43 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
We dished up culinary diversity to celebrate our dynamic F&B landscape.
A WORLD-CLASS CULINARY CAPITAL
The annual Singapore Food Festival celebrated its 30th
anniversary with its largest-ever festival village, which
showcased diverse and ever-evolving culinary experiences.
Spotlighting our vibrant cocktail scene, Tales of the
Cocktail Foundation, the global leader in spirits education
and cocktail culture, held their inaugural international
pop-up during the Singapore Cocktail Festival, followed
by a Singapore Residency at the Tales of the Cocktail
conference in New Orleans.
Singapore marked a watershed moment by hosting the
prestigious The World’s 50 Best Bars awards ceremony,
making it the first time it has been held outside of Europe.
With three bars on the top 50 list, Singapore emerged as
the top cocktail destination in Asia.
Source: 50 Best
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 43

--- PAGE 44 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
We are proud to present an exciting pipeline of leisure events and experiences, including the opening of several
first-of-its-kind attractions.
HARRY POTTER: A FORBIDDEN FOREST EXPERIENCE BIRD PARADISE AND MANDAI WILDLIFE WEST
Source: Warner Brothers Source: Mandai Wildlife Group
The Harry Potter: A Forbidden Forest Experience made its premiere Offering eco-friendly dining, retail outlets, a cascading waterfall,
in Asia, in Sentosa. Sited along the coastline, the attraction welcomed plunge pool, and interactive play areas, the newly opened Mandai
fans of the beloved franchise in Singapore and from around the Wildlife West is a free access space that the whole family will love.
world, immersing visitors in a dark, misty forest filled with the magic It also serves as a gateway to Bird Paradise, which also opened
of Harry Potter films. this year with 17 hectares of exhibits and walk-through aviaries for
visitors to explore.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 44

--- PAGE 45 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
TRIFECTA AT ORCHARD ROAD HYPERDRIVE
TRIFECTA at Orchard Road HyperDrive at Sentosa
Asia’s first snow-skate-surf destination, TRIFECTA, is the latest HyperDrive is Asia’s first indoor gamified electric go-kart circuit
thrilling addition to Orchard Road as part of a rejuvenation plan and one of the latest attractions in Sentosa. With 308 metres of
to inject vibrancy into the precinct. This first-of-its-kind attraction speedy straights and 14 thrilling turns on this track designed by
features the world's first hybrid skate bowl, accommodating both former karting world champion David Terrien, racers will be up for
skateboarding and surf-skating, as well as Asia's largest standing an unforgettable ride.
wave pool at 10 metres wide.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 45

--- PAGE 46 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
VAN GOGH: THE IMMERSIVE EXPERIENCE WELLNESS FESTIVAL SINGAPORE
Van Gogh: The Immersive Experience at Resorts World Sentosa Wellness Festival 2023 at Marina Bay Sands' Event Plaza
Van Gogh: The Immersive Experience made its Southeast Asian Following the success of the first edition of the Wellness Festival
debut in Singapore at Resorts World Sentosa. Visitors enjoyed Singapore (WFS) in 2022, the second edition expanded into a three-
the Dutch artist's sketches and paintings through large-scale week affair involving more than 180 programmes from over 100
floor-to-ceiling and wall-to-wall digital projections. organisations.
The longer run of WFS 2023 gave visitors more time to explore a
wide range of Singapore’s wellness offerings, with the event aimed
to position Singapore as a leading urban wellness destination that
prioritises holistic well-being.
The anchor event for WFS 2023 was STB’s Wellness Experience
Space at the Marina Bay Sands’ Event Plaza, a multi-sensory
experience with a sound bath and moving meditation classes.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 46

--- PAGE 47 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
NEW RETAIL EXPERIENCES INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCES AT ORCHARD ROAD
Source: Jewel Changi Airport Source: Orchard Road Business Association
STB partnered CapitaLand Investment to continue revitalising The Orchard Road precinct was enlivened with interactive activations,
Singapore’s retail scene. Key highlights include an immersive retail such as the LEGO BTS Dynamite Experience, Asia’s largest sprinkle
experience, ‘Stranger Things – The Encounter’ by Mighty Jaxx at pool by the Museum of Ice Cream and the inaugural Christmas Eve
Bugis+ shopping mall, which drew fans as well as shoppers, and Street Party.
the transformation of Funan with a contemporary basketball-themed
exhibition featuring Spanish contemporary artist Edgar Plans.
The Made with Passion (MWP) campaign onboarded 58 new
homegrown brands, bringing the total to 156. MWP brands reached
international customers through ‘Discovering the Best of Singapore
Brands’, a new experiential retail cluster at Jewel Changi Airport
supported by STB.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 47

--- PAGE 48 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
EXCITING LINEUP OF ENTERTAINMENT EVENTS
ZoukOut 2023 Source: TAS Rights Management
Large-scale entertainment events steadily resumed in Singapore, with In March 2024, Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour's six sold-out concerts
immersive experiences such as ZoukOut, Warner Brothers’ 100th at the National Stadium drew over 300,000 Swifties, boosting
anniversary, Anime Festival Asia, Singapore Comic Con, Christmas Singapore’s tourism during the period.
Wonderland, and the launch of Sneaker Con SEA, the regional edition
of the world’s largest sneaker convention.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 48

--- PAGE 49 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
SINGAPORE T100
Singapore welcomed the inaugural “Singapore T100”,
known as the T100 Triathlon World Tour, the only triathlon
‘masters’ series in the world, where participants can have
the opportunity to follow in the footsteps of the world’s
top triathletes racing on the same circuit. Singapore is
the only stop in the Asia Pacific region and the second
stop of the eight cities around the world to host this
prestigious event.
Source:
Top and Bottom: Professional Triathletes Organisation
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 49

--- PAGE 50 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
UFC FIGHT NIGHT: HOLLOWAY VS THE KOREAN ZOMBIE OLYMPIC ESPORTS WEEK
Source: UFC Source: Sport Singapore
UFC Fight Night returned to Singapore in August 2023 with more The inaugural Olympic Esports Week was held in June 2023, which
than 10,000 fans witnessing an epic knockout by Max Holloway over saw over 100 athletes compete across 10 virtual sports, including
the Korean Zombie Chan Sung Jung. Droves of Korean supporters sailing, baseball and tennis at the Suntec Singapore Convention and
and celebrities turned up in support of the latter’s retirement fight. Exhibition Centre. Over 20,000 attendees attended over four days
at the event by the International Olympic Committee that aimed to
bridge the physical and virtual worlds of sport.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 50

--- PAGE 51 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
CAPCOM PRO TOUR OFFLINE PREMIERE TOUR DE FRANCE PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE CRITERIUM
Source: Capcom Singapore Source: Tour de France Singapore / Evoke Exp Pte Ltd
The Capcom Pro Tour Offline Premiere made its inaugural appearance The Tour de France (TdF) Prudential Singapore Criterium was only
in Singapore at Gamescom Asia in October 2023. The winner of the one of two TdF Criterium events sanctioned in Asia, and Southeast
tournament walked away with a prize of US$15,000 and a coveted Asia’s first and only TdF Criterium event. Held in October 2023, the
spot in Capcom Cup X, the international Street Fighter Tournament mega cycling event saw some of the world’s elite professional riders,
that crowns the final Champion of Street Fighter 6. including world’s fastest sprinter Jasper Philipsen, who won the race;
legend Mark Cavendish, who holds the record for the most wins;
four-time Tour champion Chris Froome as well as Tour de France 2023
white-jersey winner Tadej Pogačar.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 51

--- PAGE 52 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
CHINATOWN FESTIVITIES FOR 2023 AND 2024 LITTLE INDIA DEEPAVALI CELEBRATIONS 2023
Chinese New Year Celebrations 2024 at Chinatown Deepavali Celebrations 2023 at Little India
Source: Little India Shopkeepers and Heritage Association
The Chinatown Chinese New Year Celebrations ushered in the Year Serangoon and Race Course Roads were lit up in Little India as
of the Dragon with lively cultural festivities and a grand dragon- part of the annual Deepavali celebrations, which also included a
themed street light-up along Upper Cross Street. Visitors enjoyed the festival village, culinary trails, Big Bus tours, a fashion show and a
popular street bazaars, bustling weekend performances, a countdown countdown show.
party on the eve of the Lunar New Year, and the return of the lion
dance competition.
Beyond the Chinese New Year festivities, the Qixi Fest, which
is associated with a legend about a reunion of a cowherd and
weaver fairy, made a return to Chinatown after an absence of more
than 50 years. The Chinatown Business Association also organised
its third run of the Five Footway Festival to celebrate Chinatown's
1950s heritage.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 52

--- PAGE 53 ---

Delivering
Quality
Experiences
RAIKAN CAHAYA RAMADAN 2023 ART SG 2024
Ramadan Celebrations 2024 at Kampong Gelam ART SG 2024, at Marina Bay Sands Expo and Convention Centre
Kampong Gelam celebrated Ramadan with its signature light projection ART SG, Southeast Asia's leading international art fair, saw a record
mapped onto the Sultan Mosque. Accompanying the festivities were attendance of 45,300 visitors for its second edition, while robust
a vibrant street bazaar and the return of the Mass Iftar, which drew sales by galleries during the event reaffirmed Singapore’s role as a
over 1,000 people to break fast together at Arab Street. gateway to the vibrant arts scene in Southeast Asia.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 53

--- PAGE 54 ---

BUILDING
INDUSTRY
CAPABILITIES
As tourism players reinvent the
sector through digitalisation
and sustainability efforts,
STB will continue to support
industry partners, facilitate
knowledge exchange and
equip our workforce.
Andaz Singapore
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 54

--- PAGE 55 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
We helped to raise sustainability and technology capabilities in the hotel industry.
LAUNCH OF HOTEL INDUSTRY SUSTAINABILITY PLEDGE ADOPTION OF TECHNOLOGY AND
AND HOTEL SUSTAINABILITY PLAYBOOK SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS
Source: Singapore Hotel Association Supporting hotels in adopting technology and sustainable solutions
Singapore Hotel Association’s Hotel Sustainability Conference and STB continued its efforts in supporting hotels to adopt tech and
Marketplace marked a milestone where 136 hotels pledged to reduce green solutions with proven projectivity outcomes, such as smart
single-use packaging, while maximising use of recycled materials guestroom systems and digital concierge apps. To date, 80 hotels
by 2025. The event also saw the launch of the Hotel Sustainability have implemented initiatives that are projected to reduce an estimated
Playbook on best practices and resources for hotels to tap on in 300,000 kg in total emissions while also achieving daily productivity
their sustainability journeys. gains of 1,117 man-hours.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 55

--- PAGE 56 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATIONS
Source: Pan Pacific Orchard
This year saw an increased focus by hotels to attain internationally
recognised sustainability certifications (e.g. Global Sustainable
Tourism Council, Earthcheck), with 37 hotels—about 25% of hotel
room inventory—embarking on this effort.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 56

--- PAGE 57 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
We collaborated with public and private sector partners to keep our industries competitive, innovative and relevant.
CHARTING FORWARD WITH THE JOB ROLL-OUT OF THE TOURISM CAREERS CAMPAIGN
TRANSFORMATION MAP
Launch of the Job Transformation Map Launch of the Tourism Careers Campaign
STB introduced the transformative Job Transformation Map (JTM) to STB unveiled the ‘Bring Your Passion To Life’ campaign to spotlight
build up a future-ready workforce and chart the way ahead towards the exciting and diverse opportunities in the tourism sector. The
a ‘Hotel of Tomorrow’ vision. Over 140 hotels pledged to adopt the campaign aims to attract talent across different sectors including
strategies offered in the JTM. attractions, hotels, MICE, and the travel and tours industry.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 57

--- PAGE 58 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
INAUGURAL TRAVEL AGENTS AND TOURIST GUIDES INTRODUCTION OF THE FUTURE OF GUIDING 2.0
INDUSTRY FORUM
Source: Unearthed Productions Source: Monster Day Tours
STB held the inaugural Travel Agents and Tourist Guides Industry STB convened a taskforce of industry stakeholders to chart the
Forum, the first combined industry forum dedicated to promoting Future of Guiding 2.0, where we envision a robust pipeline and
cross-sector collaborations between travel agents and tourist guides. steady stream of Tourist Guides (TG). Three training providers were
The forum drew close to 300 attendees, and involved workshops on appointed to deliver a revised and shorter curriculum to nurture and
AI tools and applications, storytelling skills, using STB’s technological sustain a diverse TG talent pool. The updated approach from the
resources for business growth, and the Future of Guiding 2.0. earlier version allowed the trainers to introduce custom modules and
set assessment criteria to better respond to evolving market needs.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 58

--- PAGE 59 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
INCLUSION OF HOUSEKEEPERS AND PORTERS IN
THE NON-TRADITIONAL SOURCES OCCUPATION
LIST
Housekeepers and porters for licensed hotels were added
to the Ministry of Manpower’s Non-Traditional Sources
Occupation List. This will alleviate pressing manpower
needs for these roles that are increasingly difficult to fill
and challenging to automate.
Alleviating manpower needs for the industry
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 59

--- PAGE 60 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
We worked with partners to accelerate digital transformation.
PIONEERING OF SINGAPORE VISITOR CENTRE LITE SELF-CHECK-IN WITH E-VISITOR AUTHENTICATION
The Singapore Visitor Centre Lite app Integration of STB's E-Visitor Authentication System
The Singapore Visitor Centre Lite was rolled out to 13 key visitor Close to 160 hotels, covering about 60% of hotel room stock, came
touchpoints across diverse precincts in Singapore to enhance the on board with self-check-in solutions integrated with STB’s E-Visitor
visitor experience, while streamlining manpower resources with up Authentication (EVA) System to automate check-in processes.
to 700 man-hours saved. The tablet app was lauded for its impactful
design with the Singapore Good Design Award and Japan G Mark.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 60

--- PAGE 61 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS TO SUPPORT THE
ATTRACTIONS INDUSTRY’S DIGITAL SHIFT
To propel the attractions industry’s shift to digitalisation,
the Attractions Technology Roadmap was introduced with
tech solutions for enhanced customer service, marketing,
and sustainability. In partnership with the Infocomm Media
Development Authority, the Industry Digital Plan was also
rolled out to boost the growth of SME attractions through
digital transformation.
Launch of the Attractions Technology Roadmap
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 61

--- PAGE 62 ---

Building
Industry
Capabilities
INAUGURAL STUDY TRIP WITH TCUBE
SINGAPORE HOTEL ASSOCIATION (SHA)
Tcube is a hybrid innovation space that Under the "Build" pillar, the Tcube Tech
brings STB’s digital initiatives and resources Directory allows stakeholders to seek out tech
onto a single platform, organised under the solutions to address their business plan points
three-step Learn-Test-Build framework. and drive innovation within their organisation.
More than 1,100 tourism companies have In addition, industries can leverage a suite of
benefitted from Tcube programmes so far. smart services developed by STB such as
Singapore Tourism Analytics Network (STAN)
Under the "Learn" pillar, STB organised
and Tourism Information & Services Hub (TIH)
an inaugural Tcube Flagship conference to
that allow businesses to tap data and shared
inspire industry leaders to drive innovation.
content to drive innovation and guide their
business decisions.
Under the "Test" pillar, STB partners
tourism businesses to pilot tech-driven
As the trusted tourism data source, STAN
projects. For example, Project MBx (Marina
Study trip by STB and SHA empowers the tourism industry with data
Bay Experience), a collaboration between
analysis tools, visualisations, and APIs to
Marina Bay precinct stakeholders, trialled
STB and SHA embarked on an inaugural gain deeper insights into visitor trends and
the leveraging of a larger pool of consumer
study trip to gain industry insights on make data-driven decisions.
data to enhance the visitor experience.
pivotal strategies like cloud-based hotel
TIH is a one-stop digital resource platform
management, AI-driven personalised booking
for businesses to share and access
experiences, and blockchain technology, as
information on Singapore's tourism offerings
well as solutions for distribution challenges.
and offers plug-and-play solutions to
enhance businesses' digital touchpoints.
For faster access to relevant information
and a more user-friendly experience, TIH
rolled out a website revamp, which includes
a streamlined interface, improved search
capabilities, and better navigation.
Tcube resource page: go.gov.sg/tcube
Project MBx
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 62

--- PAGE 63 ---

TELLING A
GREAT STORY
STB continues to showcase
Singapore’s distinctive
offerings to the world through
creative marketing campaigns
and strategic partnerships.
Lau Pa Sat
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 63

--- PAGE 64 ---

Telling a
Great Story
MADE IN SINGAPORE CAMPAIGN PARTNERSHIPS WITH LOCAL TOURISM BRANDS AND
FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS
Building on the tenets of the Passion Made Possible brand, STB
introduced the Made in Singapore (MIS) international marketing
campaign in September 2023 to drive destination desirability and
inspire travel to Singapore.
The MIS campaign serves to inspire today’s more purposeful travellers
and showcases how Singapore is a place where the ordinary is made
extraordinary, through new possibilities and unexpected experiences.
Marketing partnerships with DBS, MBS and UOB
Headlined by the hero film and its series of key visuals and social
assets, the MIS campaign was extended through the delivery of key STB embarked on marketing partnerships to amplify Singapore's
influencer and celebrity content, strategic partnership tie-ups, as well destination brand, drive visitor arrivals and promote quality experiences
as the first-ever MIS 3D out-of-home (OOH) billboards. The billboards for tourists to spend and enjoy.
were unveiled in high traffic, prominent spaces, such as Times Square
The collaborations with local tourism brands, Singapore Airlines Group
New York in the United States, Piccadilly Circus London in the UK
(SIA) and Changi Airport Group (CAG), focused on promoting visitor
and XinTianDi in Shanghai, China, bringing Singapore’s unique and
arrivals to Singapore via SIA and Scoot flights, while partnerships
extraordinary experiences to life in these markets.
with SIA Group’s Kris+ and Pelago platforms aimed to introduce
quality attractions, tours, retail, and dining experiences to enhance
tourists' visits in Singapore.
STB and DBS co-created a four-part video series, ‘The Sustainable
Foodie’, to raise awareness of Singapore as a sustainable urban
destination, with exclusive deals to sustainable experiences for DBS
cardholders in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia and Singapore.
A first-of-its-kind partnership was forged with MBS and UOB for
Q1 2024. It was headlined by the ‘Masterpieces. Made in Singapore’
marketing campaign and ‘The Legend of the Dragon Gate – Drone
Show by the Bay’, timed with key events and opportunities around
the Bay, such as Chinese New Year and Taylor Swift: The Eras
Tour. A total of 26 precinct partners collaborated to curate over
50 exclusive experiences for UOB cardholders in Singapore,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam.
Made in Singapore (MIS) campaign film
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 64

--- PAGE 65 ---

Telling a
Great Story
PARTNERSHIPS WITH ENTERTAINMENT BRANDS POP CULTURE COLLABORATIONS
AND CELEBRITY INFLUENCERS
Partnership with former F1 champion Jenson Button Source: 88rising
STB collaborated with former F1 champion Jenson Button to reach a STB spotlighted Singapore’s attractions to global audiences through
wider global audience. His love for speed and passion for adventure a music video collaboration with the American music label, 88rising.
made it a perfect match for Singapore's vibrancy and energy. Featuring Steve Aoki’s and JJ Lin’s single ‘The Show’, the video drew
over two million organic global views on YouTube and 41 million
STB and Warner Bros. Discovery collaborated on the first-ever views on Weibo for the respective artistes’ fanbases.
localised Tom and Jerry series, which premiered in August 2023 on
‘The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition’ Season 2 reality series
Cartoon Network in Asia Pacific, and HBO Go in Southeast Asia,
was launched across 28 territories in Asia. This partnership allowed
Taiwan and Hong Kong. Produced in Singapore in association with
us to feature locations in Singapore as a backdrop for various
Warner Bros. Animation, the seven-part series showed Singapore’s
challenges for the contestants.
colourful neighbourhoods, modern skyscrapers, unique city-in-nature
experiences and more.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 65

--- PAGE 66 ---

Telling a
Great Story
We deepened and widened our connections and international partnerships.
STRENGTHENING INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AND PARTNERSHIPS
STB hosted delegations from foreign
governments and had good exchanges of
best practices, while strengthening bilateral
relations.
STB represented Singapore at regional and
multilateral meeting platforms to enhance
cooperation and safeguard our tourism
interests.
Hosting of President Moetai Brotherson and the French Hosting of Canberra's Chief Minister Andrew Barr
Polynesia delegation
ASEAN Tourism Forum 2024 in Vientiane, Lao PDR ASEAN-Japan Tourism Ministers’ Special Dialogue in Tokyo,
Japan
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 66

--- PAGE 67 ---

Telling a
Great Story
AMERICAS
MARKETING SINGAPORE IN THE METAVERSE STRONG BRAND AND INFLUENCER PARTNERSHIPS
STB launched a “social-first” content
partnership with Singapore retail brand Love,
Bonito, which was expanding its business
to the US, by hosting six Asian-American
influencers and an American journalist
to unique Made in Singapore (MIS)
fashion and experiences in Singapore. Over
13 million followers were reached through
the influencer content.
For additional buzz, the MIS campaign was
rolled out in North America through creative
mainstream and social media content. Some
of the activations include 360° advertising
including the MIS OOH 3D billboard in New
York City’s Times Square, a showcase of
Launch of the Singapore-themed 3D house, named “QQ Singapore Passion Garden”, Singapore’s landmarks in the iconic window
together with Tencent displays at Saks Fifth Avenue, the launch of
digital content on Hulu streaming and Condé
STB embarked on two metaverse pilots to reshape Singapore’s Nast Group’s YouTube channels, inspiring
tourism landscape by offering unique experiences to virtual travel through unique itineraries with travel
influencers as well as tactical campaigns with
travellers around the globe. Launched on Roblox, Singapore
Expedia and Kayak to promote bookings
Wanderland offers players a virtual landscape with three
to Singapore.
islands, each showcasing a unique aspect of Singapore with
3D iconic landmarks, such as Gardens by the Bay and the To engage the MICE community, a refreshed
Merlion. Players can participate in mini-games and quests sustainable Singapore Pavilion was unveiled
to learn about Singapore virtually. With over 7.6 million visits at IMEX Americas 2023, the largest meetings
trade show in North America with 22 Singapore
and a top 50 all-time visits-to-date Roblox ranking, Singapore
industry partners. The MIS brand video also
Wanderland enabled STB to reach key markets like Indonesia,
made its international debut to over 1,300
Thailand, Philippines, and the US.
global event planners at a pinnacle event by
Source:
the Society of Incentive Travel Executives.
Top two: Silvercast Media;
Bottom two: Luis Guillen for Saks
Fifth Avenue
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 67

--- PAGE 68 ---

Telling a
Great Story
UK & EUROPE
IMEX FRANKFURT 2023 AND ITB BERLIN 2024 UNREAL. MADE IN SINGAPORE CAMPAIGN
ITB Berlin 2024 Made in Singapore out-of-home activation in Piccadilly Circus, London
STB launched the Made in Singapore campaign in the DACH With the unveiling of a 3D out-of-home billboard at Piccadilly Circus
(Germany, Austria and Switzerland) region with Shanti Joan Tan, in March 2024, STB UK launched ‘Unreal. Made in Singapore’
who is half German and half Singaporean, as a brand ambassador. to challenge perceptions of Singapore through creative imagery
Over 18.7 million views were reached across the DACH region and social activation. This was done through collaborations with
through 17 content pieces produced by Shanti that showcased influencers, two Michelin-starred chef Tom Kerridge, popular content
Singapore’s vibrancy. creator Jeremy Lynch, and internationally acclaimed artiste Nicole
Scherzinger. Overall, the campaign achieved over 300 million
STB saw the largest industry participation under our Singapore
impressions through over 300 pieces of content with an estimated
Pavilion at two major tradeshows, IMEX Frankfurt 2023 and ITB
earned media value of S$11.7m.
Berlin 2024. Both events provided networking opportunities for future
collaborations, showcased Singapore to media, and built a strong
pipeline for MICE events as well as leisure travel to Singapore.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 68

--- PAGE 69 ---

Telling a
Great Story
GREATER CHINA
STRONG PIPELINE OF MICE VISITORS
STB marked a watershed year for MICE events, pointing to Singapore’s The Trip.com Group Global Partner Summit held in October 2023
stronghold as the destination of choice for Chinese event organisers, was the first summit held outside of China and saw over 2,000 travel
corporates and executives. and corporate partners and media in Singapore. We renewed our
global partnership with the Trip.com Group for another three years
Singapore played host to the inaugural Chinese literature/Yuewen
to embark on future joint campaigns.
Global IP gala award event in January 2024, which saw 1,200
attendees including distinguished writers, artists and celebrities. In Other inaugural events held were an incentive tour by Susa Food for
June, Caixin Global held its first international business leadership their 1,400 distributors, marking the first mega incentive group from
forum outside of China, the Asia New Vision Forum, which drew China since its borders reopened; and the China’s Machinery and
more than 500 industry leaders. Electronics Show in Singapore, which drew over 5,000 attendees.
Trip.com Group Global Partners Summit 2023
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 69

--- PAGE 70 ---

Telling a
Great Story
ROLL-OUT OF MADE IN SINGAPORE CAMPAIGN IN CHINA CREATIVE COLLABORATIONS
Made in Singapore campaign launch in Shanghai Collaboration between STB and The House Collective
The Made in Singapore (MIS) campaign was launched in Shanghai To showcase Singapore’s vibrancy and unique offerings, STB
in November 2023 through a musical production that showcased collaborated with The House Collective (THC), a top luxury hotel
Singapore’s refreshed destination offerings in a unique format. The brand in Greater China. Not only were top bartenders from THC and
event was attended by close to 100 guests, which included media, Singapore connected to create Singapore-inspired cocktails, their
drinks were also presented at all THC properties across Beijing,
KOLs and industry partners. This was followed closely by a series of
Shanghai, Chengdu and Hong Kong, along with media assets
campaign launches in Guangzhou, Chengdu and Beijing for increased
produced through the collaboration. Media and key influencers
outreach to media and trade partners across China.
were invited to experience our craft cocktail scene at the Singapore
Cocktail Festival. The collaboration achieved over S$360,000
Between February and March 2024, STB China continued the Made
in international media value.
in Singapore campaign through the MIS 3D out-of-home billboard
and on-ground activation in XinTianDi, Shanghai. To further augment
In October 2023, in partnership with one of China’s leading
awareness for the campaign, STB partnered with leading online production companies, iFish, STB produced a 16-part travelogue
and lifestyle channel, RED, to execute a series of offline and social starring Chinese actor Ma Tianyu. The series ‘Travel Alone’ aired
activations, garnering an estimated reach of more than 220 million. on Douyin, with viewers following Ma’s solo adventures around
Singapore visiting both iconic and hidden gem locations. It captured
500 million viewers across top Chinese social media platforms—
Douyin, Weibo and RED—with searches for ‘Singapore’ on Douyin
seeing a 300% year-on-year growth during its airing.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 70

--- PAGE 71 ---

Telling a
Great Story
INDIA, MIDDLE EAST AND SOUTH ASIA
LOST & FOUND IN SINGAPORE
Media and Trade event for MIS campaign launch for India
To extend the reach of the Made in Singapore campaign, STB rolled
out a suite of immersive digital-first activations in India. This involved
a custom-built 3D out-of-home installation at Phoenix Palladium in
Mumbai, and an augmented reality camera filter roll-out on lifestyle
platform, Homegrown, to drive engagement. The campaign, which
featured travel promotions in collaboration with leading OTA MakeMyTrip
along with content created by local artists, successfully reached over
51 million Indian consumers.
Throughout the year, there were various branded content partnerships,
such as the launch of India’s first interactive film, Lost & Found in
Singapore. The film features celebrities Rithvik Dhanjani and Apoorva
Arora and garnered over 10.7 million views on India’s largest streaming
platform, MX Player. Other celebrity-centred partnerships included
an exclusive series with Bollywood starlet Ananya Pandey, and a Lost & Found in Singapore interactive film
special clothing collection by renowned designer Rahul Mishra, which
was inspired by Singapore and premiered at Lakme Fashion Week.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 71

--- PAGE 72 ---

Telling a
Great Story
NORTH ASIA
BRAND COLLABORATIONS COLLABORATION WITH JTB AND HIS
Partnership with STB and Korean Air Media and Trade event for MIS campaign launch for Japan
STB Korea had three milestone projects involving new branded STB Japan led a market recovery campaign with JTB and HIS offering
entertainment and trade partners. year-long nationwide sales on trips to Singapore, which resulted in
nearly 67,000 leisure visitors to Singapore.
Two episodes of SBS’s popular ‘Running Man’ show highlighted
In commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the Singapore Food
Singapore’s attractions, reaching 4.73 million viewers and generating
Festival, STB Japan embarked on a ‘Culinary Journey in Singapore’
S$46.4 million in media value.
campaign with Japanese supermarket chain Seiji-Ishii, online travel
STB partnered with Korean Air as their first National Tourist agency AirTrip, and popular YouTuber group, Mr Fuji. The campaign
Organisation partner to promote Singapore as a destination for reached nearly 3,000 leisure visitors and sold more than 200,000
Singapore-inspired bento boxes at Seijo-Ishii.
leisure and MICE travel, resulting in S$174,000 in media value and
over 9,000 flight bookings.
To further drive awareness of Singapore as a travel destination,
the Made in Singapore campaign was launched at the newly
opened Zouk Tokyo, where 60 media and trade attendees enjoyed
a fusion of Singaporean-Japanese cuisine as well as a talk show
by Singaporean and Japanese content creators.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 72

--- PAGE 73 ---

Telling a
Great Story
OCEANIA SOUTHEAST ASIA
PARTNERSHIP WITH FLIGHT CENTRE TRAVEL GROUP PARTNERSHIP WITH TNG DIGITAL AND ALIPAY+
Flight Centre’s CEO Mr Graham Turner and former STB CE Mr Keith Tan (From Left to Right) TNG Digital's CEO Mr Alan Ni, STB CE Ms Melissa Ow, Senior Vice
President of Ant Group and Head of Alipay+, Ant International, Mr Douglas Feagin
STB inked a three-year Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with STB Malaysia signed an MOU with fintech companies TNG Digital
Flight Centre Travel Group (FCTG), Australia’s largest travel company, and Alipay+ to offer visitors from Malaysia travel deals for their next
to collaborate on campaigns, events and support for travel agents. trip to Singapore over a 12-month period. The collaboration made it
This includes training and familiarisation experiences for FCTG convenient for users from Malaysia to make payments in Singapore
consultants, aimed at equipping them with the necessary knowledge with their Touch n Go eWallet. As a result, the average transaction
for booking holidays to Singapore. on Touch n Go eWallet by Malaysians had a 250% increase from
the previous quarter prior to the launch in Q4 2024.
The MOU was significant as it covers five other countries beyond
Australia—New Zealand, UK, US, Canada and South Africa. This
allows exclusive packages to be designed for visitors from Australia,
New Zealand and the UK to stop over in Singapore before continuing
their journeys.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 73

--- PAGE 74 ---

Telling a
Great Story
TRAVEL PARTNERSHIP WITH AGODA DRIVING VISITORSHIP THROUGH MIS AND INKING
NEW PARTNERSHIPS
Tapping on her large following on
social media, STB partnered with
Agoda on a campaign featuring
Thai star 'Toey' Jarinporn Joonkiat
as she explored over 20 local
attractions in the Tan Boon Liat
Building, ranging from furniture
to food. The campaign achieved
over four million social media
impressions and online buzz on
travel to Singapore.
ArD Jakarta, Anya Geraldine, and SG Ambassador to Indonesia, Mr Kwok Fook Seng,
at the Made in Singapore Media Event
STB Indonesia launched the Made in Singapore campaign with a 3D
out-of-home billboard in Jakarta, which was bolstered by an influencer
and digital media campaign that fuelled nationwide engagement. The
launch event generated 50 media features worth S$163,314 in media
Thai actress Toey Jarinporn on her trip value, while the online campaigns led to 13.9 million impressions,
to Singapore, supported by the STB and 3.6 million in reach, and revenue of over S$251,000 from flight, hotel,
Agoda partnership
and experience sales. In addition, STB embarked on its first-ever
Memorandum of Contract (MOC) with Muslim Trade Associations
AMPHURI and ASITA to position Singapore as a Muslim-friendly
leisure destination. To supplement this, STB also inked a one-year
MOC with one of Indonesia’s leading property developers, Pakuwon
Group, to boost retail spending by Indonesian visitors in Singapore.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 74

--- PAGE 75 ---

Telling a
Great Story
FOOD AND MUSIC EXPERIENCES TO SPARK COLLABORATION WITH VIETNAM AIRLINES
TRAVEL INTEREST
Partnership with STB and British alt-pop duo HONNE Memorandum of Cooperation betwen STB Vietnam and Vietnam Airlines
To promote Singapore as a travel destination to Filipino travellers, STB As a joint effort to promote Singapore and Vietnam Airlines (VNA)
Philippines leveraged creative campaigns around food and music. as top-of-mind choices for travellers from Vietnam, STB Vietnam
STB partnered British alt-pop duo HONNE to tell the Singapore story signed a two-year Memorandum of Cooperation with the carrier.
through their eyes as they visited various Singapore landmarks. A
STB Vietnam also launched the second phase of ‘Reimagine Singapore
series of unique dining experiences titled ‘Serve it, Singapore!’ was
Neighbourhoods’ to inspire travellers to visit Singapore. Featuring
also produced to showcase our foodie culture, featuring award-
popular influencer Tran Quang Vinh, the campaign highlighted unique
winning restaurants, such as Odette and The Coconut Club. Adding
spots in Sentosa, Jalan Besar, and the Orchard Road/Dempsey area,
to the buzz was an event at nightlife neighbourhood, Poblacion,
amassing 62 million impressions, 24 million in reach, and 19 million
featuring 11 of Singapore’s top cocktail bars. The event was well-
views across digital channels.
received, with more than S$3.9 million in media value, and won a
Silver award at the 59th Anvil Awards.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 75

--- PAGE 76 ---

SUSTAINABILITY
RReeppoorrtt
Preface
An Overview of
Sustainability in STB
Singapore as a Sustainable
Urban Destination
STB as a Sustainable
Organisation
Henderson Waves

--- PAGE 77 ---

Preface
Since the establishment of Singapore's Sustainable
Tourism Strategy, STB has made good progress in
the three focus areas under the strategy: Becoming a
sustainable urban destination, building a sustainable
tourism sector, and showcasing Singapore as a
sustainable urban destination.
As an organisation committed to sustainability, STB
has also set targets in alignment with GreenGov.SG
requirements to ensure the sustainable management
of our buildings as well as embed a culture of
sustainability within our people. FY2023 marks STB’s
inaugural edition of our sustainability report, where
we look at our journey, what we have achieved, and
our plans going forward.
Guided by our Board of Directors, we will continue to
develop STB’s vision of becoming a City in Nature,
where large experiences come with small footprints.
We will also continue to reimagine Singapore’s tourism
sector through the lens of sustainability, engage key
stakeholders with meaningful dialogues and thought
leadership, as well as build sustainability-related
capabilities and empower our partners on their
respective sustainability journeys.
Reporting scope: STB’s sustainability disclosure covers FY2023. The reporting
boundary is aligned with GreenGov.SG’s scope and the reporting entity per
STB’s financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
Jurong Lake Gardens
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 77

--- PAGE 78 ---

An Overview
of Sustainability
in STB
AN OVERVIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY IN STB
SINGAPORE AS A SUSTAINABLE STB AS A SUSTAINABLE
URBAN DESTINATION ORGANISATION
Our vision is to be a City in Nature, where large Our aim is to ensure sustainable management of
experiences come with small footprints. our buildings and embed a sustainable culture
within our people.
Key focus areas include but are not limited to: Key focus areas include but are not limited to:
REDUCE
STRATEGISE
Reduce resource consumption of our building and
Develop, review and maintain the sustainable
select tourism assets, and track GreenGov.SG
tourism strategy.
performance metrics to ensure targets are met.
ENABLE IMPLEMENT
Provide support and guidance to the industry Explore ways to roll out sustainability measures to
in their sustainability journey. meet our targets.
MONITOR FOSTER
Identify trends and opportunities and monitor Raise awareness on sustainability through sharing
the tourism sector’s sustainability risks of resources and embracing sustainability practices
and performance. in our daily routines.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 78

--- PAGE 79 ---

An Overview
of Sustainability
in STB
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
STB ensures sustained progress towards our sustainability goals and ambitions through our governance structure.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board maintains oversight on STB’s sustainability strategy, initiatives
and risks, and is updated annually on our sustainability efforts.
STB MANAGEMENT
STB’s Management provides strategic guidance and direction on STB’s
sustainability strategy, and is updated on risks relating to sustainability via
the Enterprise Risk Committee.
DIRECTOR, COMPLIANCE & CORPORATE SERVICES CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER
Director, Compliance & Corporate Services, oversees the STB’s Chief Sustainability Officer oversees the Sustainable Tourism
GreenGov.SG commitment with the Asset Management team, Strategy, which focuses on showcasing Singapore as a sustainable
ensuring STB’s building and select tourism assets comply with urban destination as well as drives and implements STB’s sustainability
GreenGov.SG requirements. strategy for the sector with the support of the Sustainable
Tourism Office.
ASSET MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE TOURISM OFFICE
The Asset Management team is the overall lead for sustainability The Sustainable Tourism Office focuses on charting and driving
efforts within STB, where the team looks after resource a coherent sustainability strategy for the tourism sector, by
consumption of our building and select tourism assets, fosters a collaborating with STB's line units and ensuring suitable and
culture of influence in sustainability amongst staff, and encourages sufficient support for tourism industries.
adoption of green procurement.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 79

--- PAGE 80 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
SUSTAINABLE TOURISM STRATEGY
OUR VISION
A City in Nature, where large experiences come with small footprints
OUR STRATEGY
Our sustainability strategy comprises three strategic focus areas:
FOCUS AREA 1 FOCUS AREA 2 FOCUS AREA 3
Becoming a sustainable urban Building a sustainable tourism Showcasing Singapore as a
destination, through internationally sector, through industry-specific sustainable urban destination,
recognised certifications and guidance, innovation and through a holistic marketing plan.
standards, and development of workforce development to support
sustainable products. transformation of businesses into
more sustainable businesses.
Make sustainability fun Work with associations to provide Showcase sustainable
industry-specific directions to shape experiences and stories
Develop sustainable tourism businesses' sustainability strategies
hardware and software Highlight Singapore’s strengths
Leverage innovation to support as an innovative destination
Create a sustainable experience sustainable tourism outcomes
across all consumer touchpoints
Build the sustainability-related
capabilities of our workforce
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 80

--- PAGE 81 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 1 BECOMING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN DESTINATION
STB has made good progress in the implementation of the strategy, made possible through close collaboration
with industry and agencies, and supported by dialled-up marketing efforts for more awareness.
NOTABLE ACHIEVEMENTS IN INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION
CERTIFIED AS A SUSTAINABLE
DESTINATION IN 2023, WHERE GSTC-Destination Certification
SINGAPORE WAS THE FIRST TO
The GSTC is a leading global
APPLY THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS
authority on sustainable travel and
ON A COUNTRY LEVEL. tourism. Being certified:
We drew reference from the Global Sustainable
Demonstrates Singapore's
1
Tourism Council’s (GSTC) destination criteria1
credibility and commitment
to better our understanding of sustainable
to sustainability at national-
tourism. The GSTC destination criteria are
and tourism-sector levels.
organised around four main themes which
are pegged to various components of the Strengthens Singapore's
2
United Nation’s Sustainable Development value proposition as a
Goals (UNSDGs). destination, especially for
MICE events.
The tourism sector is aligned with the
Green Economy Pillar of the Singapore
Green Plan 2030 (SGP 2030) in our efforts
to transform Singapore into a sustainable
urban destination.
STB embarked on the certification process to
demonstrate Singapore’s green credentials
a City in Nature, where large experiences greener world. With the GSTC criteria serving
and commitment to sustainability. With
come with small footprints. as the global standards for sustainable travel
sustainability increasingly becoming a top-
and tourism, the certification strengthens
of-mind concern for travellers, our vision is STB also aims to encourage more tourism
Singapore’s credibility and value proposition
for Singapore to become one of the world’s businesses to incorporate sustainability into
as a destination.
most sustainable urban destinations – their tourism offerings and contribute to a
1 https://www.gstcouncil.org/gstc-criteria/gstc-destination-criteria/
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 81

--- PAGE 82 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 1 BECOMING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN DESTINATION
NOTABLE RANKINGS IN LEADING SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARKING INDEX
In 2023, Singapore was ranked second
in Asia Pacific, and 17th globally in the
GDS-Index 2023
Global Destination Sustainability Index
(GDS-Index), a leading sustainability
Singapore's participation and rankings:
benchmarking index for tourism and
Demonstrate Singapore's commitment
events destinations. These achievements 1
towards continuous improvement and
demonstrate our commitment to becoming alignment to the UNSDGs.
a leading sustainable urban destination and
Lend credibility to Singapore's
2
lends credibility to Singapore’s reputation reputation as a leading sustainable
as a leading sustainable MICE destination. MICE destination.
STB will continue to work closely with our
tourism stakeholders to encourage the The Global Destination Sustainability Index
adoption of sustainable certification and (GDS-Index) measures and benchmarks
practices, as we collectively strive towards the sustainability performance of tourism
achieving our sustainability ambitions for the destinations across four key areas of
environment, social, supplier and destination
tourism sector.
management, to drive innovation and
regeneration of the tourism industry.
Singapore joined the index in 2022.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 82

--- PAGE 83 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 1 BECOMING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN DESTINATION
KEY INITIATIVES IN SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT AND PRECINCT-LED
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS
GO GREEN SG 2023
Go Green SG is a whole-of-nation movement that brings together
the community to organise sustainability-related events and activities
for a month, to rally collective action towards a sustainable future
for Singapore.
STB collaborated with the Ministry of Sustainability and the
Environment for the first time in July 2023, in this nation-wide
movement to showcase immersive and sustainable experiences
curated by tourism businesses in Singapore for both locals and
international visitors, which further strengthened Singapore’s position Building Wildlife-friendly Spaces at Mandai
Source: Mandai Wildlife Group
as a sustainable urban destination.
Go Green SG featured over 300 activities organised by close to 150
non-tourism partners. STB worked with tourism businesses to curate
more than 60 experiences such as interactive sustainability tours and
attractions, educational workshops, thoughtful dining experiences
and green retail experiences.
Tourism businesses leveraged on Go Green SG to testbed new
experiences, showcase their sustainable efforts creatively to
locals and international visitors, and generate awareness through
this platform.
STB’s involvement in Go Green SG 2023 was aligned with our
commitment as a responsible global citizen.
Zero to Hero Food Sustainability Tour by Tribe Tours
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 83

--- PAGE 84 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 1 BECOMING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN DESTINATION
FORMULA 1 SINGAPORE GRAND PRIX ORCHARD ROAD BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (ORBA)
Solar Panels on the Roof of the Pit Building Inaugural Environmental, Social and Governance Forum
Source: Singapore GP Pte Ltd
In September 2023, 100% of the track lights were replaced with Following ORBA’s inaugural Environmental, Social and Governance
energy-efficient LED lights which reduced electricity use by 30% (ESG) forum in June 2023, ORBA committed to develop a concerted
compared to the previous metal-halide bulbs. In addition, 1,396 solar precinct-wide sustainability roadmap, and to build capabilities
panels were installed at the Pit Building and the energy generated amongst its members by organising more business-to-business
annually is sufficient to power the building during race month. platforms with knowledge sharing on sustainability.
The race organiser, Singapore GP Pte Ltd, aims to halve its carbon
emissions from the event by 2028. In 2023, initiatives included
increased use of hydrogenated vegetable oil biodiesel to power
select generators, increased use of sustainably sourced tableware
and solar-powered water-efficient toilets.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 84

--- PAGE 85 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
To build a sustainable tourism sector, STB worked with
SINGAPORE
diverse stakeholders ranging from tourism enterprises and
HOTEL SUSTAINABILITY
industry associations in hotels, attractions, and MICE, to
ROADMAP
academia and civil society.
VISION
DEVELOPING INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAPS
To create a hotel industry in Singapore that
In particular, we worked with the Singapore Hotel Association (SHA), Singapore
Association of Convention and Exhibition Organisers and Suppliers (SACEOS),
the Trade Associations for the Hotel and MICE industries respectively to
develop and launch sustainability roadmaps for clear directions towards
Integrates sustainability as Is established as a living lab Is recognised as an industry
a core value across the for innovation and utilises sustainability leader for sustainability in
sustainability outcomes, including to achieve sustainability certification and entire hotel ecosystem as a key thrust to drive business the region
competitiveness and growth
tracking of emissions with a view of achieving net zero by 2050.
TARGETS
THE HOTEL INDUSTRY IS ON TRACK TO MEET THE TWO TARGETS
2050
SET OUT IN THE HOTEL SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP.
Launched in March 2022 together with SHA, the Hotel Sustainability At least 60% of hotel room stock to achieve
N
ET-ZERO
EMISSIONS
internationally-recognised hotel sustainability For hotels to commence tracking of emissions
Roadmap sets clear sustainability targets for the industry. SHA and STB certification (e.g. by the Global Sustainable by 2023, reduce emissions by 2030, with a
Tourism Council) by 2025 view to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050
worked closely with the hotel industry to develop sustainability capabilities
and raise sustainability standards. 4 CORE AREAS OF FOCUS
Waste Management,
Recycling & Sustainable Sourcing
Water Conservation Energy Conservation the Circular Economy and Procurement
Co-developed by
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 85

--- PAGE 86 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
The hotel industry is currently on track to meet the two Hotel
Sustainability Roadmap targets:
• C ertification: 52 hotels, comprising over 30% of hotel room inventory,
has embarked on efforts to achieve internationally recognised
sustainability certification (e.g. GSTC), with 22 hotels having already
successfully achieved certification1.
• E missions: Aside from training hotels to use a standardised
approach to tracking emissions, SHA has also been working with
partners to consolidate emissions data across Singapore hotels.
To raise sustainability capabilities and improve business
competitiveness across hotels, SHA and STB also delivered the
following:
• T wo Hotel Sustainability Conference and Marketplace events,
which attracted 362 hoteliers and sustainability partners across
both events.
• A t least ten workshops on sustainability-related topics including
carbon management, water conservation, etc.
Hotel Sustainability Conference and Marketplace 2023
Source: Singapore Hotel Association
• D eveloped and launched a Hotel Sustainability Playbook – a one-
stop online resource featuring best practices and case studies to
support hotels at different stages of their sustainability journeys.
• R evamped the Singapore Hotel Sustainability Awards to align with
internationally recognised standards. In 2023, 40 recipients received
the award for leading the industry to champion green practices.
1 Figures as of end FY23.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 86

--- PAGE 87 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
VARIOUS INITIATIVES SUCH AS THE REFRESHED MICE
SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION AND MICE SUSTAINABILITY SINGAPORE MICE
INNOVATION MARKETPLACE WERE LAUNCHED TO REINFORCE SUSTAINABILITY
SINGAPORE’S POSITION AS A LEADING SUSTAINABLE
ROADMAP
MICE DESTINATION.
1 VISION
STB launched the MICE Sustainability Roadmap in December 2022 together
To be Asia Pacific’s Leading Sustainable MICE Destination by 2030
with SACEOS. Since then, STB and SACEOS collaborated on key initiatives
to reinforce Singapore's position as a leading sustainable MICE destination.
This includes the launch of the MICE Sustainability Innovation Marketplace,
aimed at fostering innovation and promoting the adoption of sustainable Integrate sustainability as a core value Collaborate for joint success
across the MICE ecosystem and greater impact
solutions. The inaugural marketplace, held during the Singapore MICE
3 TARGETS
Forum 2023, featured 13 solutions providers, showcasing notable green
innovations such as the trial of a zero-waste booth at Food & Hotel Asia
(FHA) 2023.
On sustainability standards, as a continuation from 2022’s Waste Workshop Develop sustainability Obtain sustainability Start tracking waste and
standards by 2023 and certification1 for purpose- carbon emissions by 2023,
Agreement (WA), STB supported SACEOS to introduce the Carbon aim to be internationally built MICE venues2 & 80% of reduce waste and achieve
recognised by 2024 SACEOS members3 by 2025 net zero emissions by 2050
Emissions WA in 2023. This WA laid the foundation for the refreshed
MICE Sustainability Certification, which was launched in February 2024. 2 FOCUS AREAS
Developed in consultation with the industry, the certification aims to elevate
sustainability standards within Singapore's MICE industry by training and
certifying businesses that embrace sustainable practices in their events.
Furthermore, STB and SACEOS contributed to the development of the Circular Economy - Reducing, Reduce Energy and
Recycling & Managing Waste Carbon Emissions
GSTC MICE criteria, demonstrating Singapore’s international thought
1 Internationally or nationally recognised sustainability certification, or both
leadership in MICE sustainability. 2 Changi Exhibition Centre, Raffles City Convention Centre, Resorts World Convention Centre, Sands Expo and Convention Centre, Singapore EXPO, Suntec Singapore Convention
& Exhibition Centre.
3 Target applicable to Event Organisers, Venues, Stand Builder Contractors and F&B Caterers. All MICE players can get certified through education and collaboration initiatives
provided by SACEOS.
STB and SACEOS remain committed to our close collaboration with the CO-DEVELOPED BY
MICE industry to drive further progress of the MICE Sustainability Roadmap.
Accurate as of 1 December 2022
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 87

--- PAGE 88 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
STB COLLABORATED WITH KEY PARTNERS TO DEVELOP SUSTAINABLE TOURISM JOBS AND
INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNISED SUSTAINABILITY SKILLS ROADMAP
STANDARDS FOR MICE AND ATTRACTIONS.
Since the Sustainable Tourism Jobs and Skills Roadmap was rolled
In 2023, STB committed to support GSTC in the development of their out in 2023, we made progress in the area of broad-based upskilling
industry criteria for MICE and Attractions. The GSTC MICE Criteria to support the workforce in sustainability-related capability building.
and GSTC Attraction Criteria will serve as the global sustainability
standards for both industries.
The GSTC MICE Criteria was launched in March 2024. As part of 2 Industry Targeted support to develop industry
the criteria development process, SACEOS and other local MICE Leaders leaders as change agents
stakeholders actively exchanged industry insights and shared best
practices on sustainability with global MICE players.
Foster knowledge transfer across the
3 Knowledge
industry to bridge the skills gap between
The GSTC Attraction Criteria will be launched by the end of 2024. The Transfer
nascent and advanced organisations
Association of Singapore Attractions and local attraction players are
actively contributing to the criteria development process, alongside
Enable broad-based upskilling
global players such as the International Association of Amusement of tourism workforce based on
1
Parks and Attractions. Broad-base four green skill clusters1 identified
Drive demand and take-up for
sustainability training
1 The four identified clusters are GSTC certification-related training, carbon management, green marketing and comms, and green procurement/supply chain management.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 88

--- PAGE 89 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
IN 2023, OUR EFFORTS FOCUSED ON DRIVING TAKE-UP OF SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED TRAINING AND
IMPROVING PERCEPTIONS OF TOURISM CAREERS, INCLUDING SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED JOB ROLES.
Our efforts included:
Marketing sustainability-related Equipping young talents Supporting broad-based upskilling
careers
• M arketed sustainability-related careers • I ncorporated sustainability-related content • L aunched the GDS one-day Storytelling
under the tourism careers campaign to raise into the curricula of Institutes of Higher Masterclass pilot in partnership with NTUC
awareness of sustainability-related job roles Learning to ensure tourism-related courses LearningHub and completed a second run.
and improve perception of tourism careers. stay up-to-date.
• I ntroduced the Hotels Sustainability Infokit to
▪ Featured The Fullerton Hotel Singapore’s ▪ Republic Polytechnic embarked on guide hotels on their sustainability journeys.
Sustainability Manager in one of four the 'Train the Trainers' programme by This includes:
tourism hero films. GSTC, and the polytechnic’s faculty
▪ Checklist to track progress.
will be equipped with competencies to
▪ Featured Constellar's sustainability
incorporate GSTC-related content into ▪ List of courses in four skill clusters.
internship role in one of its social content.
their curriculum.
▪ Ngee Ann Polytechnic incorporated case
studies of sustainability in Singapore hotels
into their curriculum.
ROLL OUT OF THE GOOD JOBS STRATEGY PILOT WEBINAR SERIES
With changing aspirations of locals to take on quality jobs with Between May and August 2023, GJI conducted webinars with four
good career progression, STB rolled out the Good Jobs Strategy hotels for them to gain insights and the know-how in applying the GJS
(GJS) pilot webinar series in collaboration with SHA and Good specific to their operating contexts and identify ideas for implementation
Jobs Institute (GJI). The pilot series aimed to create good jobs for or test beds. Initiatives eventually implemented by the hotels centred
locals through re-looking at business and workforce models, and around leadership and talent development opportunities, increasing
optimising operations to increase engagement levels for employees in staff empowerment, salary structure review, and redesigning job roles
frontline roles. to improve productivity and/or reduce labour costs.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 89

--- PAGE 90 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
SUSTAINABLE TOURISM CONVERSATIONS ARE took away insights on the available resources to equip their workforce
ORGANISED ANNUALLY TO GUIDE THE INDUSTRY ON KEY with green skills by Workforce Singapore, key sustainability trends,
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS AND ENSURE CONTINUED and best practices, including accessible tourism by SG Enable.
ENGAGEMENT OF STAKEHOLDERS IN OUR SUSTAINABLE
TOURISM JOURNEY. Sentosa Development Corporation moderated a panel discussion
with Sentosa’s island partners, helping the audience to gain
The inaugural Sustainable Tourism Dialogue was held in 2022 and
insights into opportunities, strategies, and areas of collaboration
was renamed as the Sustainable Tourism Conversations in 2023.
for decarbonisation in the tourism sector.
It aims to drive industry development in sustainable tourism by:
STB’s Chief Sustainability Officer also moderated a panel discussion
with Woopa Tours, Gardens by the Bay, PARKROYAL COLLECTION
• P roviding updates, direction, and guidance on the sustainable
Pickering and Marina Bay Sands, allowing the audience to glean
tourism strategy.
insights on how investing in sustainability had helped reduce bottom
• R allying support and buy-in for sustainability to build business lines and positively impacted business models.
resilience and competitive advantage.
• F acilitating knowledge transfer and bridging connections.
• G athering feedback on how to improve the Tourism Sustainability
Programme (TSP) as well as areas that STB can help champion
at whole-of-government (WOG) platforms.
The 2023 edition in October gathered over 150 attendees, including
tourism stakeholders across the hotels, attractions, MICE and cruise
industries, precincts, academia and government agencies.
Topics shared at Sustainable Tourism Conversations 2023 included
the sustainable tourism strategy, global trends of sustainable tourism,
sustainability capability building (led by Workforce Singapore) and
accessible tourism (led by SG Enable), amongst others.
STB took the opportunity to recap the sustainable tourism strategy
and shared on global trends of sustainable tourism. The audience Sustainable Tourism Conversations 2023
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 90

--- PAGE 91 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
TOURISM BUSINESSES LEVERAGING THE TOURISM SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME
Tourism Sustainability Programme (TSP) was launched in 2022 to support tourism businesses’ sustainability journeys across all stages of
development, from building workforce capabilities to leveraging technology and test bedding sustainable solutions.
The TSP focus areas are:
Capability Development Innovation Education and Awareness
and Growth
Support sustainability capability Support development and Provide information on best
development and training test bedding of innovative practices and spotlight areas
through grants, e.g. Training sustainable solutions (e.g. in of focus, e.g. the Sustainable
Industry Professionals in areas such as waste, water, Tourism Jobs & Skills Roadmap,
Tourism (TIP-iT) and Business energy and carbon emissions Sustainability Roadmaps for
Improvement Fund (BIF). management) through the MICE and Hotels, local brands
Singapore Tourism Accelerator. and produce.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 91

--- PAGE 92 ---

SSiinnggaappoorree aass
aa SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee
UUrrbbaann
DDeessttiinnaattiioonn
FOCUS AREA 2 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
HOTELS MICE TOURISM WORKFORCE
STB provided BIF support for Food & Hotel Asia – Food & Beverage 2023 Storytelling and
hotels to embark on efforts to • Zero-waste booth Communication Strategies for
achieve internationally recognised ▪ Done in collaboration with Miniwiz, a Taiwan-based sustainability Regeneration Masterclass
certification and adopt sustainability
tech vendor.
solutions. Explored traditional communication
▪ Pilot of booth generated interest in the industry and went on
strategies and how they can
Over 45 hotels tapped on STB’s BIF to be further displayed at other events/platforms, namely Asia
be applied to communicating
for projects related to sustainability Tech x Singapore 2023, Singapore MICE Forum 2023, Singapore
sustainability and enhance its
certification and adoption of sustainability Airshow 2024 and World Congress of Anaesthesiologists 2024 to
purpose.
solutions. Some efforts as follows: continue industry education.
• F ar East Hospitality and Pan Pacific • O ver 40 tourism workers trained
• 100% recyclable carpets
Hotel Group are working on consultancy in two runs of the course.
▪ Trialled by Kingsmen to use recyclable carpets on tradeshow floor.
projects to develop and implement
These recyclable carpets (by The Mills) can be broken down at
organisation-wide sustainability
the end of their life cycle into components that can be made into
frameworks and programmes for their
plastic products, as compared to typical carpets that have to be
respective groups.
discarded.
• M ercure Singapore, Novotel Singapore,
• W aste wood recycling pilot programme
voco Orchard, Holiday Inn Singapore
Little India, Carlton City Hotel, Westin ▪ Pilot programme trialled by Informa Markets, in collaboration with
local company, LHT Holdings. This resulted in 10,000 kg of wood
Singapore, among others, have
implemented in-room water filtration being recycled.
system, which supported them in their
25th World Congress of Dermatology 2023 –
efforts to contribute to SHA's industry-
Singapore’s largest-ever medical congress
wide pledge of minimising single-use
packaging for drinking water. • O nly hotels with a green policy and within walking distance from
the Congress venue were selected as partners.
• G rand Hyatt Singapore is in the process
• S ustainable menu for participants packed in eco-friendly packaging.
of setting up a water bottling plant in the
hotel to fully automate the production • L eftover food and beverages were repurposed to generate
of glass bottled water. This solution is renewable energy or donated to local charities.
expected to drive significant productivity • P articipants were advised to bring their own bottles to minimise
savings and sustainability outcomes disposable plastic waste.
by replacing the plastic bottles used in
• 1 2,000 pre-loaded transport cards were provided to encourage
guest rooms and public spaces.
use of public transport.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 92

--- PAGE 93 ---

Singapore as
a Sustainable
Urban
Destination
FOCUS AREA 3 SHOWCASING SINGAPORE AS A SUSTAINABLE URBAN DESTINATION
To showcase Singapore as a sustainable urban destination, our sustainability strategy is underpinned by spotlighting
Singapore's sustainable experiences and stories.
GO GREEN SG MARKETING CAMPAIGN
STB’s marketing efforts targeted at
international travellers were rolled out
across earned, paid, and owned platforms
to drive awareness and encourage
participation in Go Green SG.
The majority of our paid marketing
activities performed above benchmarks
in terms of impressions.
Local marketing efforts by Ministry
of Sustainability and the Environment
saw positive results and uptake of
experiences among locals.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 93

--- PAGE 94 ---

STB as a
Sustainable
Organisation
STB AS A SUSTAINABLE ORGANISATION
Launched in 2021, GreenGov.SG is the public sector’s sustainability movement, a key enabler of the national
sustainability agenda mapped out in the Singapore Green Plan 2030.
STB is aligned with GreenGov.SG and is working towards managing its environmental impact through three key
approaches: Excel, Enable, and Excite.
EXCEL ENABLE EXCITE
ENERGY GREEN PROCUREMENT CAPABILITY BUILDING
GUIDELINES
Reduce energy use1 by 10% from the Elevate environmental sustainability
baseline (average of 2018 to 2020 Incorporate environmental awareness and knowledge within
levels) by 2030 sustainability considerations STB
into our procurement
WATER
ENERGY AUDIT CULTURE BUILDING
Reduce water use2 by 10% from the
baseline (average of 2018 to 2020 Assess system performance Inculcate sustainability action in
levels) by 2030 and recommend measures for our workplace and as part of our
improving energy consumption daily routine
WASTE
Reduce waste disposed3 of by 30%
from baseline (2022 level) by 2030
1 Energy use is in terms of electricity used per unit area.
2 Water use is in terms of water used per person per day.
3 Waste disposal is in terms of waste disposed per person per day.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 94

--- PAGE 95 ---

STB as a
Sustainable
Organisation
EXCEL
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
PERFORMANCE
As of the end of FY2023, STB met all
environmental targets and implemented most
of the environmental sustainability measures
set out under the GreenGov.SG initiative.
STB’s environmental sustainability performance
covers reporting period, 1 April 2023 to 31 March
Existing Non-Residential Buildings (ENRB: 2017)
2024, and is aligned with the GreenGov.SG scope
Platinum where performance is reported as a portfolio
of assets comprising Tourism Court (including
Tourism Court tenants1), and select tourism assets, which are
Tourism Court, 1 Orchard Spring Lane, Haw Par Villa, Chinatown Heritage Centre and
Singapore 247729
Events Storage Facility.
The following are excluded from the reported
scope as these buildings are not owned or
operated by STB, namely STB's overseas regional
offices, Singapore Expo, Marina Bay Cruise
Date of Original Issue: Date of Expiry: Centre Singapore, Design Orchard, Pit Building
27/05/2022 27/05/2025
and Singapore Flyer.
1 Tenants’ consumption is tracked and there are green clauses in the tenancy agreement requiring them to utilise the space in a sustainable manner.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 95

--- PAGE 96 ---

STB as a
Sustainable
Organisation
EXCEL
ENERGY USE
STB met our energy use target, with an improvement of 14% from baseline level.
Under GreenGov.SG, STB tracks energy consumption at Tourism Court and
3.2
select tourism assets using two indicators:
2.8
• T otal electricity consumption (in kilowatt hours (kWh))
2.7 2.7
• E nergy Utilisation Index (EUI), derived as the total annual electricity
32.7
consumed by Tourism Court and select tourism assets divided by their
29.4 total Gross Floor Area.
28.4 Target
27.4 28.0 for 2030 Against FY2022, STB’s total electricity consumption in FY2023 increased by
2%. This is mainly due to increased activities at venues such as Haw Par
Villa, as well as renovation works at Chinatown Heritage Centre. Electricity
Baseline FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 consumption for Tourism Court1 remained consistent with FY2022, reflecting
(average of
FY2018–2020) our efforts in energy conservation.
Energy Utilisation Index (kWh per m2) Total Electricity Consumption In kWh (mil)
In tandem with the increase in total electricity consumption, STB’s EUI increased
marginally by 2%, from 27.4 kWh/m2 in FY2022 to 28.0 kWh/m2 in FY2023.
Despite the increase, STB still met the EUI target of 29.4 kWh/m2.
1 Tourism Court accounts for 85% of STB’s total electricity consumption.
)eOC
t(
snoissimE
2
OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
Aligned with the public sector's target to achieve net zero around 2045,
1,236
STB tracks emissions from the following sources to be mindful of our
21
carbon footprint:
1,215
• S cope 1: Direct emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by
STB (petrol, diesel consumption)
1,161
• S cope 2: Indirect emissions resulting from the use of purchased electricity.
1,139 25
9 The carbon emissions are measured in carbon dioxide equivalent in tonnes
1,130 1,136
(t CO e).
2
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Against FY2022, STB's carbon emissions decreased by 6%.
Scope 1 – Fuel, Diesel Scope 2 – Electricity
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 96

--- PAGE 97 ---

STB as a
Sustainable
Organisation
EXCEL
WATER USE
STB met our water use target, with an improvement of 17% from baseline level.
The water consumption at STB’s Tourism Court and select tourism
assets is tracked using two indicators:
21,952
17,088
15,759 • T otal water consumption (in litres)
13,219
• W ater Efficiency Index (WEI), derived as water consumption per
day divided by the total number of occupants and visitors to the
premises
198.4
Against FY2022, STB’s total water consumption in FY2023 increased
by 8%. This is mainly due to more staff returning to the office in
100.7
90.6
Tourism Court1 and more visitors at select tourism assets arising
90.5 Target
83.5 for 2030 from ramped up activities and events.
Despite the increase in total water consumption from a higher volume
Baseline FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 of occupants and visitors, STB’s WEI decreased by 8%, from 90.5
(average of
FY2018–2020) litres/person/day in FY2022 to 83.5 litres/person/day in FY2023.
This is attributable to STB’s water management practices at both
Water Efficiency Index (Litres/person/day) Total Water Consumption in Litres
Tourism Court and select tourism assets, coupled with a robust
FY2021’s WEI was 68% higher than baseline; this is an anomaly during the COVID-19 pandemic inspection and maintenance regime to ensure minimal wastage of
period. Although staff were working from home and occupancy was low in Tourism Court, a water and leak detection.
minimum volume of water consumption was needed for operation of key systems such as water
sprinklers and building upkeep.
1 Tourism Court water consumption accounts for 72% of STB’s total water consumption.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 97

--- PAGE 98 ---

STB as a
Sustainable
Organisation
EXCEL
WASTE DISPOSAL
STB met our waste disposal target, with an improvement of 17% from baseline level.
1,213,618
The waste disposal at STB’s Tourism Court and select tourism assets
is tracked using two indicators:
• T otal general waste disposed (in kilogrammes (kg))
224,154 • W aste Disposal Index (WDI), derived as the total amount of waste
disposed per day divided by the total number of occupants and
6.3 6.3 visitors to the premises
4.4 Against FY2022, STB’s total waste disposed in FY2023 was reduced
Target by 83%. This is mainly due to the new methodology adopted for waste
for 2030
disposal at Haw Par Villa since January 2023, where landscape waste
is now segregated from general waste1. Additionally, waste generated
at Tourism Court2 was reduced by 29%, a result of initiatives put in
1.1
place to discourage the usage of disposables such as utensils and
encouraging staff to go paperless. In line with the reduction of total
Baseline FY2022 FY2023
waste disposed, STB’s WDI decreased by 82% from 6.3 kg/person/
(based on
FY2022) day in FY2022 to 1.1 kg/person/day in FY2023.
Waste Disposal Index (kg/person/day) Total Waste Disposed in kg
Baseline of FY2022 is in alignment with GreenGov.SG. No waste data for FY2021 as it was not measured.
1 FY2022’s waste is not re-stated to exclude landscape waste for Haw Par Villa as the segregation was not done back then and no data is available to facilitate the segregation today.
2 Tourism Court waste accounts for 34% of STB’s total waste disposed.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 98

--- PAGE 99 ---

STB as a
Sustainable
Organisation
ENABLE EXCITE
CAPABILITY BUILDING AND CULTIVATING SUSTAINABILITY
IN OUR PEOPLE & CULTURE
At the core of STB’s commitment to sustainability is a deep appreciation for the
importance of our people. We firmly believe that STB employees are not just essential
to our operations, but also pivotal to our sustainability efforts. Building a sustainable
organisation starts with our people and their mindset. By nurturing a culture that
values our employees, we lay the groundwork for a sustainable future driven by the
collective efforts and mindset of STB’s workforce. Hence, in addition to measures
to meet the environmental targets, STB has also focused on capability building,
cultivating a sustainability mindset in our people and embedding it into our culture.
This commitment was exemplified in a Beach Detox event at Pasir Ris beach in
2023, where STB staff collected 20 kg of trash within an hour. This initiative not only
contributed to cleaning up the beach but also played a significant role in fostering
STB Beach Detox at Pasir Ris Beach Park a culture of sustainability within STB.
In addition, there were other sustainability initiatives in FY2023:
Initiatives Implement STB’s evaluation Introduce green clauses into Educate divisions managing Conduct an energy audit
criteria on sustainability tenancy or lease agreements. assets on GreenGov.SG the at Tourism Court.
practices for all goods and measures to foster a sustainable
services procured with an management mindset and reduce
estimated value ≥ $5mil. resource consumption.
Outcomes Six tenders have used One tenancy agreement in Attractions have been engaged to Completed an energy audit
Achieved the sustainability practice Tourism Court has included promote sustainability initiatives. in December 2023.
evaluation criteria since green clauses. As a result, Haw Par Villa has:
in FY2023
implementation. • Attained PUB's Water Efficient
Building certification
• Introduced on-site recycling bins
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 99

--- PAGE 100 ---

CCoorrppoorraattee
GOVERNANCE
View from Toa Payoh HDB towards PIE Expressway

--- PAGE 101 ---

Corporate
Governance
RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT
OF THE BOARD
The Board oversees and monitors STB’s There were twelve Directors on the Board from 1 April 2023 to 31 December 2023 and
organisational performance and achievement eleven Directors on the Board from 1 January 2024 to 31 March 2024 with the following
of strategic goals and objectives. It movements:
assumes the responsibility of reviewing and
• t he appointment of Ms Melissa Ow as Chief Executive, taking over Mr Keith Tan from
approving corporate strategies, budgets
1 June 2023.
and financial plans.
• the retirement of Mr Aaron Maniam on 21 July 2023.
• the appointment of Dr Ho Kaiwei on 14 August 2023.
• t he retirement of Mr Chaly Mah as Chairman and Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Mr Ravi Thakran on
31 December 2023.
• t he appointment of Mr Olivier Lim as Chairman, as well as Mr Amrin Amin and Mr Lee
Seow Hiang from 1 January 2024.
• a nd the reappointment of Mr Arthur Lang and Ms Soh Siew Choo from 1 January 2024.
The size and composition of the Board are guided by the clauses stated in the STB Act.
The desired outcome is the provision of a conducive environment for effective discussions
and decision-making. The process for the appointment of Directors to the Board is kept
formal and transparent as this is critical to the role that corporate governance plays. A
review of each Directors’ membership on the Board is done when his or her official term of
appointment ends.
The Board is given the mandate to act independently and to exercise objective judgment
on the STB’s corporate affairs. This is to ensure that checks and balances are instituted.
Apart from Ms Melissa Ow and Ms Thien Kwee Eng, the other Directors on the Board
are Independent Directors. A Director’s independence is re-assessed at the point of each
re-appointment.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 101

--- PAGE 102 ---

Corporate
Governance
CONDUCT OF BOARD TABLE 1: DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS IN FY2023
(1 APRIL 2023 TO 31 MARCH 2024)
AFFAIRS
Scheduled Board Meetings Board Workshop1
The Board approves financial transactions
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended
above a certain financial limit. A regular
review of the financial authorisation and Mr Chaly Mah2 5 4 1 1
approval limits is performed. During each Mr Olivier Lim 5 5 1 1
financial year, the Directors are requested
Mr Keith Tan3 5 1 1 0
to complete an annual Board Evaluation
Questionnaire that allows the STB to Ms Melissa Ow4 5 4 1 1
assess the overall administration of Board
Mr Aaron Maniam5 5 1 1 0
matters and engagements with the Board.
Mr Amrin Amin6 5 1 1 0
Under the year in review, there were a total
of five scheduled Board meetings and a Ms Audrey Kuah 5 4 1 0
half-day Board Workshop to discuss key
Mr Arthur Lang 5 3 1 1
strategic issues. A record of the Directors’
Dr Ho Kaiwei7 5 3 1 1
attendance at Board meetings during the
financial year, which ended on 31 March Mr Lee Seow Hiang6 5 1 1 0
2024, is set out in Table 1.
Mr Lim Eng Hwee2 5 4 1 0
Mr Rajeev Menon 5 4 1 1
Mr Ravi Thakran2 5 2 1 1
Ms Soh Siew Choo 5 2 1 1
Ms Thien Kwee Eng 5 4 1 1
Mrs Wong Ai Ai 5 4 1 1
1 Typically held in November and was combined with 05/2023 Board Meeting.
2 M r Chaly Mah, Mr Lim Eng Hwee and Mr Ravi Thakran retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2023 and was scheduled
for four Board Meetings and one Board Workshop.
3 M r Keith Tan retired from the Board with effect from 31 May 2023 and was scheduled for one Board Meeting.
4 M s Melissa Ow was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2023 and was scheduled for four Board Meetings and one Board Workshop.
5 M r Aaron Maniam retired from the Board with effect from 21 July 2023 and was scheduled for one Board Meeting.
6 M r Amrin Amin and Mr Lee Seow Hiang were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2024 and were both scheduled for one Board Meeting.
7 D r Ho Kaiwei was appointed to the Board with effect from 14 August 2023 and was scheduled for three Board Meetings and one Board Workshop.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 102

--- PAGE 103 ---

Corporate
Governance
CORPORATE TABLE 2: DIRECTORS’ BOARD COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS AND ATTENDANCE
AT BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS IN FY2023 (1 APRIL 2023 TO 31 MARCH 2024)
GOVERNANCE
Directors are given access to the ARC FIC Governance HRMC
STB’s records and information,
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
senior management, or any other
Mr Chaly Mah1 1 1 1 0
staff of the organisation as deemed
Mr Olivier Lim 1 1 1 1
necessary for them to effectively
discharge their responsibilities and Mr Keith Tan2 1 0 1 1 1 0
to deliberate meaningfully on issues Ms Melissa Ow3 1 1 1 0 1 1
discussed at Board meetings.
Mr Aaron Maniam4 1 0
The following Board Committees Mr Amrin Amin5 1 1
assist the Board in executing its
Ms Audrey Kuah 3 2
duties:
Mr Arthur Lang 3 3
• Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) Dr Ho Kaiwei 1 1
• F inance and Investment Mr Lee Seow Hiang6 1 0
Committee (FIC) Mr Lim Eng Hwee7 3 2
• Governance Committee Mr Rajeev Menon8 3 2 1 1
• H uman Resource Management Mr Ravi Thakran9 1 0
Committee (HRMC) Ms Soh Siew Choo 1 1
Ms Thien Kwee Eng10 3 1 1 0
A record of each Director’s Board
Committee memberships and Mrs Wong Ai Ai 1 1
attendance at Board Committee
1 Mr Chaly Mah retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2023 and was scheduled for one Governance Committee meeting.
meetings during the financial year, 2 Mr Keith Tan retired from the Board with effect from 31 May 2023 and was scheduled for one Governance Committee meeting.
3 Ms Melissa Ow was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2023 and was scheduled for one FIC meeting and one HRMC meeting.
which ended on 31 March 2024, is 4 Mr Aaron Maniam retired from the Board with effect from 21 July 2023 and was not scheduled for any HRMC meeting.
5 Mr Amrin Amin was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2024 and was scheduled for one FIC meeting.
set out in Table 2.
6 Mr Lee Seow Hiang was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2024 and was not scheduled for any Governance Committee meeting.
7 Mr Lim Eng Hwee retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2023 and was scheduled for two ARC meetings.
8 Mr Rajeev Menon moved from ARC to FIC with effect from 1 January 2024 and was scheduled for two ARC meetings and one FIC meeting.
9 Mr Ravi Thakran retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2023 and was not scheduled for any FIC meeting.
10 Ms Thien Kwee Eng moved from FIC to ARC with effect from 1 January 2024 and was scheduled for one ARC meeting.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 103

--- PAGE 104 ---

Corporate
Governance
AUDIT AND RISK INTERNAL CONTROLS INTERNAL AUDIT
COMMITTEE
The Board ensures that Management maintains The Internal Audit reports functionally to the
a sound system of internal controls to safeguard Chairman of the ARC and administratively to
The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) comprises
the interests of stakeholders and the assets of the Chief Executive. As part of its auditing, the
three independent and non-executive Directors. At
the STB. The ARC ensures that a review of the Internal Audit is guided by the current International
least two members of the ARC have the requisite
effectiveness of the STB’s internal controls – Professional Practices Framework issued by the
accounting or related financial management
including financial, operational and compliance Institute of Internal Auditors. The adequacy of
expertise to discharge their responsibilities
funding and staffing of the Internal Audit and its
controls, and risk management – takes place
and duties.
appropriate standing within the STB is ensured
annually through the various audits performed
by the ARC.
The responsibilities of the ARC include ensuring internally and through related reports issued to
the adequacy of internal controls and reviewing the ARC. For certain projects or areas where
The Internal Audit adopts risk-based auditing
audit plans, audit reports and audited STB independent expertise is required in connection as its key audit assurance practice. It
Annual Financial Statements. Besides overseeing with the review of controls, external professionals provides regional offices, process owners
accountability and audit, the ARC also assists and service providers are appointed accordingly. and policymakers of the STB, with reasonable
the Board by providing oversight of the STB’s
assurance on the effectiveness of control and
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
governance processes in the management of
through regular risk management reports from EXTERNAL AUDIT
risks and accomplishment of objectives.
Management.
As part of the audit of the annual financial
The ARC has explicit authority to investigate any statements, the external auditors conduct a WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY
matter within its terms of reference; it also has review of the significant internal controls. Any
The STB has a whistleblowing policy to allow
full access to, and cooperation of, Management. material non-compliance and/or internal control
employees, stakeholders and the general public
It has direct access to the Internal Audit and weaknesses, together with the external auditors’
to report concerns that have significant impact on
external auditors with full discretion to invite any recommendations, are addressed and made
the Board and its operations, locally and overseas.
Board Member or Management staff to attend known to the ARC. To maintain the independence
The policy aims to encourage the reporting of such
its meetings. of the external auditors, the ARC has reviewed the
matters in good faith, with the confidence that
nature and extent of non-audit services provided
persons making such reports will be treated fairly
In addition, the ARC also met with the external
by the external auditors during the year and the
and, to the fullest extent possible, protected from
auditors and staff of Internal Audit without the
fees paid for such services. The ARC is satisfied
reprisals. All whistleblowing reports, including the
presence of Management, during the financial
that the independence of the external auditors identity of the whistleblower will be treated with
year. In order to discharge its function and duties,
has not been impaired by the provision of those confidentiality. Reports can be lodged directly
reasonable resources are made available to
services. The external auditors have also provided to the Head of STB Internal Audit via email at
the ARC.
confirmation of its independence to the ARC. ethics@stb.gov.sg.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 104

--- PAGE 105 ---

Corporate
Governance
FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE HUMAN RESOURCE
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
The Finance and Investment Committee (FIC) The Governance Committee comprises three
comprises four Directors. Its responsibilities Directors, including the Chairman of the Board.
The Human Resource Management Committee
are broadly categorised into Finance and Fund The Committee’s main focus is to ensure the
(HRMC) comprises four Directors, including the
Management. It endorses STB’s work plans effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees.
Chairman of the Board. The HRMC provides
and budget before submission to the Board for To ensure that the Board has the appropriate
guidance on leadership development and talent
approval. The Committee approves tenders as balance of skills and experience to deal with
management matters for employees; reviews
part of tender committee, and expenditures in the strategic issues and challenges facing the
compensation policies and structures to ensure
accordance to the STB’s Financial Regulations. STB, the Governance Committee reviews the
competitiveness; endorses the promotion of
It also approves any proposed changes to the appointments and renewals of Directors, and
leaders to or within senior appointment and
STB’s Financial Regulations. It approves the provides recommendations where possible. It
grades; as well as assess STB’s corporate
STB’s investment policy, objectives, guidelines, also assumes the responsibility for conducting
performance report before seeking support from
strategies and appointment of external fund an annual evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness.
Board Members.
manager(s) in respect of surplus funds available
for financial investments and reviews these
matters at least once a year. The Committee also
ensures that financial investments are conducted
in compliance with statutory legislation and
government directives.
Annual Report 2023 – 2024 105

--- PAGE 106 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

--- PAGE 107 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C O N T E N T S
PAGE
Statement by Singapore Tourism Board 1
Independent auditor’s report 2 - 5
Statement of financial position 6
Statement of comprehensive income 7
Statement of changes in equity 8
Statement of cash flows 9
Notes to financial statements 10 - 34

--- PAGE 109 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”) which comprise the
statement of financial position as at 31 March 2024, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement
of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 6 to 34.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Board are properly drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018 (“PSG Act”), the Singapore Tourism Board
Act 1963 (“STB Act”) and Statutory Board Financial Reporting Standards (“SB-FRS”) so as to present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the Board as at 31 March 2024 and the financial performance,
changes in equity and cash flows of the Board for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (“SSAs”). Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Board in accordance with the Accounting and
Corporate Regulatory Authority Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and
Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Information Other than Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Statement by
Singapore Tourism Board set out on page 1, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
2

--- PAGE 110 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial
Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and SB-FRS, and for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
A statutory board is constituted based on its constitutional act and its dissolution requires Parliament’s
approval.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Board’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless there is intention to wind up the Board or for the Board to cease
operations.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Board’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Board’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Board’s ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Board to cease to continue as a
going concern.
3

--- PAGE 111 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
that we identify during our audit.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Opinion
In our opinion:
(a) the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets by the
Board during the year are, in all material respects, in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act,
STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the
Board; and
(b) proper accounting and other records have been kept, including records of all assets of the Board
whether purchased, donated or otherwise.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with SSAs. Our responsibilities under those standards are further
described in theAuditor’s Responsibilities for the Compliance Audit section of our report. We are independent
of the Board in accordance with the ACRA Code together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on management’s compliance.
Responsibilities of Management for Compliance with Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Management is responsible for ensuring that the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the
acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the
requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the Board. This responsibility
includes monitoring related compliance requirements relevant to the Board, and implementing internal
controls as management determines are necessary to enable compliance with the requirements.
4

--- PAGE 112 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Compliance Audit
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s compliance based on our audit of the financial
statements. We planned and performed the compliance audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance
with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to
moneys of or managed by the Board.
Our compliance audit includes obtaining an understanding of the internal control relevant to the receipts,
expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets; and assessing the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements from non-compliance, if any, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Board’s internal control. Because of the inherent limitations
in any internal control system, non-compliances may nevertheless occur and not be detected.
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
8 July 2024
5

--- PAGE 113 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 March 2024
Note 2024 2023
$’000 $’000
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 6 153,852 198,159
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 7 126,303 29,237
Finance lease receivable 8 930 874
Financial assets under fund management 9 279,894 262,582
Total current assets 560,979 490,852
Non-current assets
Prepayments 7 122 74
Finance lease receivable 8 13,736 14,665
Property, plant and equipment 10 242,305 258,847
Right-of-use assets 11 219,321 186,067
Intangible assets 12 5,158 9,289
Other investments 13 2,076 2,076
Other assets 150 150
Total non-current assets 482,868 471,168
Total assets 1,043,847 962,020
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 114,287 100,848
Advances and deposits received 31,510 13,253
Lease liabilities 16 12,835 9,871
Total current liabilities 158,632 123,972
Non-current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 12 25
Deferred capital grants 15 161,334 174,028
Lease liabilities 16 49,612 5,349
Total non-current liabilities 210,958 179,402
Equity
Share capital 17 588,712 582,333
Accumulated surplus 85,469 76,237
Revaluation reserve 76 76
Total equity 674,257 658,646
Total liabilities and equity 1,043,847 962,020
Net assets/(liabilities) of Trust and Agency Funds 18 112,513 33,762
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
6

--- PAGE 114 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Year ended 31 March 2024
Note 2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Operating income 19 45,889 41,694
Less: operating expenses
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 (22,908) (21,012)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 (25,251) (28,498)
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 (4,454) (3,664)
Employee benefit expenses 20 (103,419) (97,973)
Other operating expenses (243,209) (191,198)
(399,241) (342,345)
Non-operating income and expenses
Net Investment gain/(loss) 21 17,633 (16,379)
Other income 22 4,277 2,289
Other expenses 23 (877) (1,137)
21,033 (15,227)
Operating loss before Government grants (332,319) (315,878)
Government grants
Operating grants 325,172 297,287
Amortisation of deferred capital grants 15 16,379 17,683
341,551 314,970
Net surplus/(deficit) before contribution to
Consolidated Fund 9,232 (908)
Contribution to Consolidated Fund 24 - -
Surplus/(Deficit) for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year 9,232 (908)
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
7

--- PAGE 115 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 31 March 2024
Share Accumulated Revaluation
capital surplus reserve Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance as at 1 April 2022 575,691 77,145 76 652,912
Equity injections (Note 17) 6,642 - - 6,642
Deficit for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year - (908) - (908)
Balance as at 31 March 2023 582,333 76,237 76 658,646
Equity injections (Note 17) 6,379 - - 6,379
Surplus for the year, representing total
comprehensive gain for the year - 9,232 - 9,232
Balance as at 31 March 2024 588,712 85,469 76 674,257
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
8

--- PAGE 116 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Year ended 31 March 2024
Note 2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Operating activities
Surplus/(Deficit) for the year 9,232 (908)
Adjustments for:
Operating grants (325,172) (297,287)
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 15 (16,379) (17,683)
Allowance for credit losses 23 - 19
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 22,908 21,012
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 26,641 29,997
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 4,454 3,664
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of right-of-use assets 22 (2) 22
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 23 438 (145)
Interest income (4,954) (6,152)
Net investment (gain)/loss on financial assets
under fund management (16,954) 20,387
Finance lease income (1,364) (1,554)
Lease interest expense 439 1,096
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (300,713) (247,532)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables (14,583) 23,908
Accruals and other payables 13,426 (8,585)
Advances and deposits received 18,256 3,527
Cash used in operations (283,614) (228,682)
Interest received 3,920 410
Net cash used in operating activities (279,694) (228,272)
Investing activities
Interest received 2,043 5,562
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10 (6,883) (15,105)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (323) (5,886)
Proceeds from disposal of right-of-use
assets and property, plant and equipment 693 441
Repayment of finance lease receivables 874 821
Net purchase of financial assets under fund management (357) (52,663)
Net cash used in investing activities (3,953) (66,830)
Financing activities
Interest paid (439) (1,096)
Operating grants received 242,997 304,810
Capital grants received 15 3,685 12,775
Equity injection 17 6,379 6,642
Repayment of lease liabilities 16 (13,282) (17,887)
Net cash from financing activities 239,340 305,244
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (44,307) 10,142
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6 198,159 188,017
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6 153,852 198,159
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
9

--- PAGE 117 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
1 GENERAL
The Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”), a Singapore statutory board under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry (“MTI”), is established in the Republic of Singapore under the Singapore Tourism Board
Act 1963 (the “Act”) with its registered office and principal place of operations at Tourism Court,
1 Orchard Spring Lane, Singapore 247729.
The primary functions and duties of the Board are:
(i) To develop and promote Singapore as a travel and tourist destination;
(ii) To advise the Government on matters relating to travel and tourism;
(iii) To enhance the travel and tourism sector’s contribution to the Singapore economy; and
(iv) To exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of such tourism enterprises as the Board
may determine.
These financial statements are presented in Singapore dollar, which is the Board’s functional currency.
All values presented are rounded to the nearest thousand (“$’000”), unless indicated otherwise.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
The financial statements of the Board for the year ended 31 March 2024 were authorised for issue by
the Board of Directors on 8 July 2024.
2 SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost basis, except as disclosed
in the accounting policies below, and are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of PSG Act,
STB Act and SB-FRS, including Interpretations of SB-FRS (“INT SB-FRS”) and SB-FRS Guidance Notes.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for services.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price
is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of
an asset or a liability, the Board takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability which
market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement
date.
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in the financial statements is determined
on such a basis, except for leasing transactions that are within the scope of SB-FRS 116 Leases, and
measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as value in use in
SB-FRS 36 Impairment of Assets.
10

--- PAGE 118 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
2.2 Adoption of new and revised standards
On 1 April 2023, the Board adopted all the new and revised SB-FRSs, INT SB-FRS and SB-FRS
Guidance Notes that are effective from that date and relevant to its operations. The adoption of these
standards does not result in changes to the Board’s accounting policies and has no material effect on
the amounts reported for the current or prior year except as below.
The Board has adopted the amendments to SB-FRS 1 for the first time in the current year. The
amendments change the requirements in SB-FRS 1 with regard to disclosure of accounting policies.
Accounting policy information is material if, when considered together with other information included
in an entity’s financial statements, it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the
primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements.
The Board has applied materiality guidance in SB-FRS Practice Statement 2 in identifying its material
accounting policies for disclosures in the related notes. The previous term ‘significant accounting
policies’ used throughout the financial statements has been replaced with ‘material accounting policy
information’.
2.3 Standards issued but not yet effective
Management has assessed and is of the view that the adoption of the new/revised SB-FRSs,
INT SB-FRSs and amendments to SB-FRS that are issued as at the date of authorisation of these
financial statements but effective only in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial
statements in the period of their initial adoption.
2.4 Financial instruments
Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised on the statement of financial position when, and only when the Board
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial assets are initially measured
at fair value. All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either
amortised cost or fair value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
(i) Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at amortised
cost:
• The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
• The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are derecognised or impaired,
and through the amortisation process.
11

--- PAGE 119 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
(ii) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”):
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Equity instruments designated as at FVTOCI
The Board has made an irrevocable election to designate its investment in unquoted equity
shares that are not held for trading as at FVTOCI on initial application of SB-FRS 109
(see Note 13). The Board is of the view that the cost of the unquoted equity shares represents
the fair value of the investment.
Investment in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction
costs. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes
in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments
revaluation reserve. The cumulative gain or loss will not be reclassified to profit or loss on
disposal of the equity investments, instead, they will be transferred to accumulated surplus.
Dividends on these investments in equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the
Board’s right to receive the dividends is established, unless the dividends clearly represent a
recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
By default, all other financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or
loss (“FVTPL”).
Despite the aforegoing, the Board may make the following irrevocable election/designation at
initial recognition of a financial asset:
• the Board may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity
investment in other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met; and
• the Board may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or
FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value as at each reporting date, with any fair
value gains or losses recognised in profit or loss to the extent they are not part of a designated
hedging relationship. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or
interest earned on the financial assets and is included in the “investment income” (Note 21).
12

--- PAGE 120 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
Impairment of financial assets
The Board recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt instruments not
held at FVTPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Board expects to receive, discounted at an
approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows
from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit
exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss
allowance is recognised for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective
of timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
For debtors, the Board applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Board does
not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each
reporting date. The ECLs on these financial assets are estimated based on the Board’s historical credit
loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
environment which could affect debtors’ ability to pay.
The Board considers a financial asset in default when internal or external information indicates that
the Board is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full. A financial asset is written
off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Board derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the
asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the asset to another party. On derecognition, any difference between the carrying amount
and the sum of proceeds received is recognised in the profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments issued by the Board are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a
financial liability and an equity instrument.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Board after
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Board are recognised at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
Pursuant to the Finance Circular Minute (“FCM”) No. 26/2008 on Capital Management Framework
(“CMF”), equity injection from the Singapore Government (the “Government”) is recorded as share
capital.
13

--- PAGE 121 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method
or at FVTPL. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised,
and through the amortisation process.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured
at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Board derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Board’s obligations are
discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial
liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable, including any non-cash assets transferred
or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
2.5 Leases
The Board as lessee
The Board assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Board
recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease
term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets. For these leases, the Board recognises the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from
the leased assets are consumed.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be
readily determined, the Authority uses the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lessee.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise of:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives.
The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on
the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made.
14

--- PAGE 122 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
The Board remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related
right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase
option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments
using a revised discount rate;
• the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment
under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured by discounting
the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease payments change is
due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used); or
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease,
in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using
a revised discount rate.
The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability,
lease payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Right-of-use assets are calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their depreciable amounts
over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the underlying assets as follows:
Leasehold land - 3 to 99 years
Commercial units - 3 to 10 years
Residential units - 2 to 4 years
Office equipment - 2 to 6 years
Motor vehicles - 3 years
The right-of-use assets are presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The Board applies SB-FRS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for
any identified impairment loss accordingly.
Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the
lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the
period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs and are included in the line
‘Other operating expenses’ in the statement of comprehensive income.
As a practical expedient, SB-FRS 116 permits a lessee not to separate non-lease components,
and instead account for any lease and associated non-lease components as a single arrangement.
The Board has not used this practical expedient. For a contract that contains a lease component and
one or more additional lease or non-lease components, the Board allocates the consideration in the
contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the lease component
and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components.
15

--- PAGE 123 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
The Board as lessor
Leases for which the Board is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee,
the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When the Board is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two
separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease by reference to the
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant
lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the
carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the
Board’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Board’s net investment outstanding in respect of the
leases.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Measurement
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment initially recognised includes its purchase price
and any cost that is directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Board.
Depreciation
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are available for use.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method to allocate their depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Buildings - 10 to 99 years
Building improvements - 4 to 7 years
Furniture, fittings and equipment - 2 to 10 years
Motor vehicles - 5 years
Electrical installation and air-conditioners - 3 to 7 years
Infrastructure - 4 to 30 years
The residual values, estimated useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at each financial
year-end, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. The effects of any revision of the residual values
and useful lives are included in income or expenditure when the changes arise.
16

--- PAGE 124 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
Derecognition
On disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment, the difference between the
disposal proceed and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.
2.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation (where they have finite useful
lives) and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line
method on the following bases:
Computer software - 3 to 5 years
Intangible assets under development are not depreciated until they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and amortisation method of intangible assets are reviewed
at the end of each reporting period with the effect of any changes in estimates accounted for on a
prospective basis.
An item of intangible assets is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in
the profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Board reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial assets
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount
of an individual asset, the Board estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating
unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised immediately as income, unless the asset is valued at revalued amount, in which
case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
17

--- PAGE 125 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
2.9 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Board has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
of a past event, it is probable that the Board will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the
present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle
the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
2.10 Trust and agency funds
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2.11 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Board will comply
with the conditions attaching to them and the grants will be received. Government grants whose
primary condition is that the Board should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire non-current assets
are recognised as deferred capital grant in the statement of financial position and transferred to income
or expenditure on a systematic and rational basis over the useful lives of the related assets.
Other government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with
the costs for which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants that
are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving
immediate financial support to the Board with no future related costs are recognised in income or
expenses in the period in which they become receivable.
2.12 Income recognition
Income is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes
amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Events-related income
Events-related income is recognised over time when the Board satisfies a performance obligation by
transferring control of a service to the customer. The amount of income recognised is the amount of
the transaction price allocated to each satisfied performance obligation. Transaction price is the
amount of consideration in the contract to which the Board expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring the promised services.
Lease income
The Board’s policy for recognition of income from operating leases is described in Note 2.5 above.
18

--- PAGE 126 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
Interest income
Interest income is recognised over time, on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
2.13 Defined contribution plans
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense when employees
have rendered the services entitling them to the contributions. Payments made to state-managed
retirement benefit schemes, such as the Singapore Central Provident Fund, are dealt with as payments
to defined contribution plans where the Board’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to those
arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
2.14 Employee leave entitlement
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is
made for the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to
the end of the reporting period.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances, and cash balances placed with the
Accountant-General’s Department (“AGD”) which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in
value.
2.16 Foreign currency transactions and translation
In preparing the financial statements, transactions in currencies other than the Board’s functional
currency are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling
at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the application of the Board’s material accounting policy information, which are described in
Note 2, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be
relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future
periods.
Management is of the opinion that there are no critical judgements or significant estimates that would
have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
19

--- PAGE 127 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
4 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, FINANCIAL RISKS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Categories of financial instruments
The following table sets out the financial instruments as at the end of the reporting period:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Financial assets
Financial assets at amortised cost:
Deposits and other receivables excluding prepayments 114,768 25,209
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 153,852 198,159
Finance lease receivables (Note 8) 14,666 15,539
283,286 238,907
Financial assets measured at FVTPL (Note 9) 279,894 262,582
Other investments (Note 13) 2,076 2,076
565,256 503,565
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Accruals and other payables excluding provisions for
unconsumed leave and GST payable 140,706 109,589
Lease liabilities (Note 16) 62,447 15,220
203,153 124,809
(b) Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Board’s key financial risks include market risk (including interest rate risk, currency risk and
market price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
There has been no change to the Board’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in
which it manages and measures the risk. Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity
analysis indicated below.
The Board does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
(i) Foreign exchange risk management
The Board has exposure to foreign currency risk as a result of its externally managed
investments in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. Foreign currency
sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect any reasonable
possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates to have a significant impact on the
Board’s operations and cash flows.
20

--- PAGE 128 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
(ii) Interest rate risk management
The Board’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to its deposits with AGD, and
investments in quoted equities and bonds, as disclosed in Notes 6 and 9 respectively.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect
any reasonable possible changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the
Board’s operations and cash flows.
(iii) Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations
resulting in financial loss to the Board. In managing credit risk exposure, credit review and
approval processes as well as monitoring mechanisms are applied.
The Board’s major classes of financial assets are cash and deposits with AGD, cash and
bank balances, other receivables, and financial assets held at fair value through profit or
loss. The maximum exposure to credit risk for each class of financial assets is the carrying
amount of that class of financial instruments presented on the statement of financial
position.
(iv) Market price risk management
The Board is exposed to market risks arising from investments in quoted equities and
bonds, both of which are designated as fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), managed
by fund managers. The Board diversifies its portfolio in accordance with its investment
mandate to manage exposure to fluctuations in market prices.
Further details of these investments can be found in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Market price sensitivity
The sensitivity analyses have been determined based on the exposure to market price
risks at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of the FVTPL investments, if the underlying market prices had been
2% higher/lower, the deficit of the Board will decrease/increase by $5,598,000
(2023 : deficit of the Board will decrease/increase by $5,252,000).
(v) Liquidity risk management
The Board manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient funds to enable it to meet its
operational requirements.
The Board’s objective is to maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate
by management to finance the Board’s operations. The investment portfolio comprises
quoted equities and bonds (as disclosed under Note 9) with resale markets to ensure
portfolio liquidity.
The Board does not have any significant exposure to liquidity risk as at the end of each
reporting period.
21

--- PAGE 129 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
(vi) Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Board classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has
the following levels:
a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1);
b) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
(Level 2); and
c) input for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
Investments (as disclosed under Note 9) are measured based on Level 1 of the fair value
hierarchy. Unquoted equity shares (Note 13) are measured based on Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy.
Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities
recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
(c) Capital risk management policies and objectives
The Board manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while
fulfilling its objective as a statutory board.
The Board is required to comply with the Capital Management Framework for Statutory Boards
detailed in Finance Circular Minute M2/2024, including the need to declare annual dividends to
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in return for the equity injection.
The capital structure of the Board consists of accumulated surplus and capital account.
The overall strategy of the Board remains unchanged from the previous financial year.
5 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(a) Transactions with Ministries and Government Agencies
For the purposes of these financial statements, related parties refer to Ministries, Organ of States
and other Statutory Boards. The transactions with Government-related entities (other than
Ministries, Organ of States, and other Statutory Boards), are not disclosed unless there are
circumstances to indicate that these transactions are of interest to the readers of the financial
statements.
Some of the Board’s transactions and arrangements are with related parties and the effect of
these on the basis determined between the parties is reflected in these financial statements.
The balances are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand unless otherwise stated.
22

--- PAGE 130 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
Other than as disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following significant transactions
took place between the Board and its related parties during the financial year:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
MTI
Services and expenses paid to MTI 92 1,287
Services rendered to MTI (641,510) (590,027)
Other Ministries and Government Agencies
Purchases and services paid to other government agencies 47,496 37,009
Expenses made on behalf by other ministries and
other government agencies 5,504 66,590
Services rendered to other government agencies (603) (389)
Reimbursements from other ministries and
other government agencies (9,239) (5,171)
(b) Board members and key management personnel remuneration
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Remuneration and other short-term benefits 3,035 3,187
Contributions to defined contribution plan 116 102
3,151 3,289
The above includes Board members’ allowance of $181,059 (2023 : $160,325).
6 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Cash and bank deposits (i) 153,852 198,159
(i) This includes cash and bank deposits placed with Accountant General’s Department (“AGD”)
under the Centralised Liquidity Management Scheme (“CLM”) under AGD Circular 4/2009. The
CLM Scheme includes placement of cash deposits with approved financial institutions. Deposits,
which are interest-bearing, are centrally managed by AGD and are available to the Board upon
request and earn interest at the average rate of 3.38% (2023 : 1.56%) per annum.
23

--- PAGE 131 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
7 DEPOSITS, PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Deposits 2,056 1,707
Prepayments 11,657 4,102
Other receivables:
- Operating grants 88,111 5,936
- Ministries and other government agencies 15,675 12,489
- Others 8,926 5,077
126,425 29,311
Net deposits, prepayments and other receivables 126,425 29,311
Less: Non-current prepayments (122) (74)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables presented as
current assets 126,303 29,237
No impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the receivables after taking into account the
historical default experience in which the debtors operate, together with the value of deposits.
There has been no material change in the estimation techniques or material assumptions made during
the current reporting period.
Movement in the allowance for credit losses:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year - -
Allowance recognised in profit or loss (Note 23) - 19
Bad debts written-off - (19)
Balance at end of year - -
24

--- PAGE 132 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
8 FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLE
The Board entered into an agreement with a third party company incorporated in Singapore to lease
a parcel of land granted to the Board by the Singapore Land Authority for the purpose of a
tourism-related project. The average discount rate implicit in the lease is 6.4% (2023 : 6.4%)
per annum.
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Amount receivable under finance lease:
Year 1 1,825 1,825
Year 2 1,825 1,825
Year 3 1,825 1,825
Year 4 1,825 1,825
Year 5 1,825 1,825
Year 6 onwards 11,410 13,235
Gross investment in the lease 20,535 22,360
Less: Unearned finance income (5,869) (6,821)
Present value of minimum lease receivable 14,666 15,539
Net investment in the lease analysed as:
Recoverable within 12 months 930 874
Recoverable after 12 months 13,736 14,665
14,666 15,539
The following table presents the amounts included in profit or loss.
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Finance income on the net investment in finance lease 952 1,004
The Board’s finance lease arrangements do not include variable payments.
25

--- PAGE 133 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
9 FINANCIAL ASSETS UNDER FUND MANAGEMENT
The Board set up its own investment portfolio, managed by external fund managers in accordance
with the approved investment mandate. The investments consist of quoted equities and quoted bonds
with a total net asset value of $279,894,000 (2023 : $262,582,000). The valuation of investments is
based on the last market day of the financial year provided by the external fund managers and
custodian bank which have no significant unobservable inputs.
During the financial year, fair value gain (including foreign exchange movement), amounting to
$16,684,000 (2023 : fair value loss of $20,149,000) relating to financial assets under fund
management was recorded.
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 279,894 262,582
Fair value hierarchy as at 31 March 2024
Level 1 279,894 262,582
279,894 262,582
26

--- PAGE 134 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Furniture, Electrical
Building fittings and Motor installation and Capital work-
Buildings improvements equipment vehicles air-conditioners Infrastructure in-progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2022 471,784 32,583 16,273 1,278 34,854 49,389 12,140 618,301
Additions 61 12,118 1,093 35 1,636 - 162 15,105
Reclassification - 4,157 721 - 7,262 - (12,140) -
Disposals - (104) (790) (564) (59) - - (1,517)
At 31 March 2023 471,845 48,754 17,297 749 43,693 49,389 162 631,889
Additions - 1,275 191 19 2,243 282 2,873 6,883
Reclassification - - - - 127 - (127) -
Disposals (474) (86) (847) (87) (41) (19,417) - (20,952)
At 31 March 2024 471,371 49,943 16,641 681 46,022 30,254 2,908 617,820
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2022 227,465 30,809 15,361 1,160 29,956 48,759 - 353,510
Depreciation 16,201 1,698 898 42 2,039 134 - 21,012
Disposals - (99) (759) (564) (58) - - (1,480)
At 31 March 2023 243,666 32,408 15,500 638 31,937 48,893 - 373,042
Depreciation 16,124 3,304 566 37 2,742 135 - 22,908
Disposals (213) (56) (640) (68) (41) (19,417) - (20,435)
At 31 March 2024 259,577 35,656 15,426 607 34,638 29,611 - 375,515
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2024 211,794 14,287 1,215 74 11,384 643 2,908 242,305
At 31 March 2023 228,179 16,346 1,797 111 11,756 496 162 258,847
27

--- PAGE 135 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold Commercial Residential Office Motor
land units units equipment vehicles Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2022 232,147 79,504 2,851 184 27 314,713
Additions 19 3,715 1,615 - 95 5,444
Disposals - (1,946) (1,525) (120) (27) (3,618)
At 31 March 2023 232,166 81,273 2,941 64 95 316,539
Additions 55,400 2,873 2,212 - 24 60,509
Disposals (50,000) (2,471) (1,756) (29) (13) (54,269)
At 31 March 2024 237,566 81,675 3,397 35 106 322,779
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2022 52,913 49,166 1,587 125 21 103,812
Depreciation 12,395 16,029 1,499 36 38 29,997
Disposals - (1,821) (1,369) (120) (27) (3,337)
At 31 March 2023 65,308 63,374 1,717 41 32 130,472
Depreciation 11,880 13,306 1,390 11 54 26,641
Disposals (50,000) (1,868) (1,745) (29) (13) (53,655)
At 31 March 2024 27,188 74,812 1,362 23 73 103,458
Carrying amount:
As at 31 March 2024 210,378 6,863 2,035 12 33 219,321
As at 31 March 2023 166,858 17,899 1,224 23 63 186,067
The Board leases several assets including leasehold land, commercial units, residential units,
office equipment and motor vehicles. The lease terms range from 2 to 99 years.
The contracts of leases for right-of-use assets which expired in the current financial year were either
replaced by new leases or extended through exercising the extension options. This resulted in additions
to right-of-use assets of $60,509,000 (2023 : $5,444,000).
Depreciation of residential units amounting to $1,390,000 (2023 : $1,499,000) is shown as employee
benefits expenses under Note 20 while the remaining depreciation of right-of-use assets of
$25,251,000 (2023 : $28,498,000) is shown as a separate line in the statement of comprehensive
income.
28

--- PAGE 136 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Computer
software
$’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2022 41,406
Additions 5,886
At 31 March 2023 47,292
Additions 323
Disposals (937)
At 31 March 2024 46,678
Accumulated amortisation:
At 31 March 2022 34,339
Amortisation for the year 3,664
At 31 March 2023 38,003
Amortisation for the year 4,454
Disposals (937)
At 31 March 2024 41,520
Carrying amounts:
At 31 March 2024 5,158
At 31 March 2023 9,289
13 OTHER INVESTMENTS
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Unquoted equity shares at FVTOCI 2,076 2,076
14 ACCRUALS AND OTHER PAYABLES
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Accruals 93,858 69,591
Other payables:
- Ministries and other government agencies 6,787 7,796
- Others 13,654 23,486
Total accruals and other payables 114,299 100,873
Less: Amount due for settlement after 12 months (12) (25)
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 114,287 100,848
The average credit period for trade payables is 30 to 60 days (2023 : 30 to 60 days).
29

--- PAGE 137 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
15 DEFERRED CAPITAL GRANTS
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
At beginning of year 174,028 183,063
Capital grants received 3,685 8,648
Less: Amortisation of deferred capital grant (16,379) (17,683)
At end of year 161,334 174,028
16 LEASE LIABILITIES
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Maturity analysis:
1 year 13,709 10,132
2 to 5 years 41,557 5,114
More than 5 years 16,333 333
71,599 15,579
Less: Unearned interest (9,152) (359)
62,447 15,220
Represented by:
Current 12,835 9,871
Non-current 49,612 5,349
62,447 15,220
Reconciliation of lease liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the board’s lease liabilities arising from financing activities, including
both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash
flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the board’s statement of cash flows as cash flows
from financing activities.
31 March Financing New lease 31 March
2023 cash flows liabilities 2024
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Lease liabilities 15,220 (13,282) 60,509 62,447
31 March Financing New lease 31 March
2022 cash flows liabilities 2023
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Lease liabilities 27,663 (17,887) 5,444 15,220
30

--- PAGE 138 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
17 SHARE CAPITAL
2024 2023 2024 2023
Number of ordinary shares $’000 $’000
’000 ’000
Issued and paid up:
At beginning of year 582,333 575,691 582,333 575,691
Equity injection (1) 6,379 6,642 6,379 6,642
At end of year 588,712 582,333 588,712 582,333
(1) Injections of capital in 2023 and 2024 are part of the Capital Management Framework for
Statutory Boards under Finance Circular Minute M2/2024. The shares have been fully paid for
to fund tourism-related assets and are held by the Minister for Finance, a body corporate
incorporated by the Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act 1959. The holder of these shares,
which has no par value, is entitled to receive dividends from the Board.
18 TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year 33,762 6,149
Add: Receipts - funds received from the Government 321,072 267,837
Less: Funds disbursed to:
- External parties (217,803) (240,169)
- Government agencies (1,331) (55)
Less: Payables and accruals
- External parties (14,625) -
- Government agencies (8,562) -
Balance at end of year 112,513 33,762
Represented by:
- Cash balances 106,379 34,094
- Other receivables 29,321 240
- Other payables and accruals (23,187) (572)
112,513 33,762
The trust and agency funds are used for tourism-related incentive schemes and for tourism-related
development projects.
31

--- PAGE 139 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
19 OPERATING INCOME
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Events-related income 26,751 24,060
Lease income 15,073 15,320
Others 4,065 2,314
45,889 41,694
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Wages and salaries 86,224 81,629
Contributions to defined contribution plan 8,894 8,733
Other staff benefits 6,911 6,112
Depreciation on residential units (Note 11) 1,390 1,499
103,419 97,973
NET
21 INVESTMENT GAIN/(LOSS)
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Interest income 679 4,008
Net fair value gain/(loss) on financial assets under
fund management 16,005 (19,842)
Exchange gain/(loss) on financial assets under fund management 679 (307)
Income/(Expenses) on financial assets under fund management 270 (238)
17,633 (16,379)
22 OTHER INCOME
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Interest income from bank 4,275 2,144
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets 2 -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 145
4,277 2,289
32

--- PAGE 140 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
23 OTHER EXPENSES
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 438 -
Loss on disposal of right-of-use assets - 22
Allowance for credit losses (Note 7) - 19
Interest expense on lease liabilities 439 1,096
877 1,137
24 CONTRIBUTION TO CONSOLIDATED FUND
The Board is required to make contributions to the Government Consolidated Fund in accordance with
the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated Fund) Act, 1989. The contribution is based
on the guidelines specified by the Ministry of Finance. It is computed at the prevailing corporate tax
rate based on the net surplus (if any) of the Board for each of the financial year adjusted for any
accumulated deficits brought forward from prior years. Contribution to consolidated fund is provided
on an accrual basis. The Board has $130,391,000 (2023 : $139,623,000) of unrecognised deferred
benefits relating to unutilised deficits to be carried forward to offset against future surplus.
At the end of the financial year, STB has accumulated deficits carried forward as follows:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of the year 139,623 138,715
Amount (utilised)/recognised in current year (9,232) 908
Balance at end of the year 130,391 139,623
Benefits on above not recognised at 17% (2023 : 17%) 22,166 23,736
Benefits in relation to the accumulated deficits were not recognised due to the unpredictability of
future surplus streams.
25 COMMITMENTS
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised in the financial
statements were analysed as follows:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Amount contracted for capital expenditure 19,969 98
33

--- PAGE 141 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2024
(b) Other commitments
During the financial year, the Board paid a total fee of $628,561 (2023 : $879,474) for the use
of the computer equipment and related services under Whole-of-Government Information
Communications Technology. These incurrences were recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income.
The future aggregate minimum committed payments at the reporting date but not recognised
as liabilities as at 31 March 2024 are as follows:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Within one year 416 686
In the second to fifth year inclusive 169 462
585 1,148
26 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
The Board as a lessee
Amount recognised in profit or loss relating to leases:
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Expense relating to short-term leases 2,384 4,098
Expense relating to leases of low value assets 426 317
2,810 4,415
At 31 March 2024, the Board is committed to $1,536,000 (2023 : $1,711,000) for short-term lease
and $757,000 (2023 : $1,400,000) for low valued assets.
The Board as a lessor
The Board has entered into property leases. These leases typically run for an initial period of one to
fifteen years, with an option to renew the lease after that period. Operating and financing lease income
earned during the year was $13,708,956 (2023 : $13,766,000) and $1,364,156 (2023 : $1,554,000)
respectively.
2024 2023
$’000 $’000
Maturity analysis:
Year 1 11,929 10,265
Year 2 9,752 2,755
Year 3 9,933 2,261
Year 4 8,022 2,092
Year 5 7,976 174
Year 6 onwards 14,924 17
62,536 17,564
34