

--- PAGE 1 ---

O URISM B O N U AL REP O
A N R
E
T R
D
A T
2020-
21
R
O
P
A
G
N
I
S
A
N
I
G
A
A YEAR OF REDISCOVERIES AND REIM
NOIT

--- PAGE 2 ---

R
E
D
I
S
C
O
V ER
L
I
K
E
A
T
O
U
R
IST
Some images in the following report were taken pre-COVID 19.

--- PAGE 3 ---

S
R EVISIT
C A
L
O
N
O
L TI
C
A
R
T
AT

--- PAGE 4 ---

ONN
E
C AL L
C E
E I
T R F
R
IN E

--- PAGE 5 ---

STO
E R
R E
NGLE
U
J
N
N
OU
R
A
I
B
R
U

--- PAGE 6 ---

A
T A
H
O
M
E
A
R
E
V W
I
A
T Y
FR
A
O
L
SI M
E
H
O
EM

--- PAGE 7 ---

The pandemic may have
shaken the global travel industry,
but the Singapore brand remains
reassuringly vital and strong. And
as the world reopens its borders,
we have reimagined our Little Red
Dot as a destination of choice –
one that is innovative, valued,
GIN
sustainable and safe – for both the R A E
M
leisure and business travellers. E
I
T
R
A N
V
EL I
RE
O
P
A
S G
IN

--- PAGE 8 ---

CONTENTS
78 CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
46 MARKETING SINGAPORE
83 FINANCIAL
TO THE WORLD
HIGHLIGHTS
64 BUILDING INDUSTRY
COMPETITIVENESS
71 ENHANCING DESTINATION
ATTRACTIVENESS
74 TOWARDS A COVID-RESILIENT
SINGAPORE
26 TOURISM SECTOR
PERFORMANCE
29 CALENDAR OF EVENTS
41 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
CILC
O
NAVIGATE PAGES
T
K
ABOUT STB
2 VISION & MISSION 8 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
3 VALUES 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S MESSAGE
4 REGIONAL OFFICES 14 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
18 SENIOR MANAGEMENT
19 BUSINESS GROUPS

--- PAGE 9 ---

1
ABOUT
SINGAPORE
TOURISM
BOARD
STB is a statutory board under the
Ministry of Trade and Industry of
Singapore. It is the lead development
agency for tourism, one of Singapore’s
key economic sectors. Together with
industry partners and the community,
it shapes a dynamic Singapore
tourism landscape, and brings the
Passion Made Possible brand to life by
differentiating Singapore as a vibrant
destination that inspires people to
share and deepen their passions.
STB ensures that tourism remains an
important and vibrant economic pillar
through long-term strategic planning,
and by forging partnerships, driving
innovation and promoting excellence
in the tourism sector.

--- PAGE 10 ---

2
VISION MISSION
A vibrant and inspiring To shape a dynamic
Destination Singapore tourism landscape
that we are proud of. for Singapore
in partnership
with the industry
and community.

--- PAGE 11 ---

3
VALUES
Care Courage Integrity Team
Care for One Another Dare to Speak Behave Responsibly Succeed as a Team
We show empathy and care We speak up and share our We are reliable, fair and honest in We take responsibility for our
through supportive actions and thoughts with conviction and our dealings with our stakeholders, individual roles and work together
encouraging words for one another respect towards others. partners and colleagues. We uphold to contribute to STB’s success.
and the community. the Board’s reputation. We appreciate and recognise
Dare to Dream everyone’s effort and celebrate
Nurture One Another We challenge traditions, norms and Passion success together.
We promote a nurturing environment by assumptions with fresh ideas and Believe in Our Purpose
supporting, helping out and looking out perspectives. We take bold steps to We are energetic, driven and believe Bond as a Team
for one another. experiment and translate ideas to in the purpose of our work. We seek to understand and respect
plans for the future. individual differences. We make time
Respect for One Another Driven to Excel to have fun together and put smiles on
We respect one another by listening to Dare to Do We love what we do and take pride in one another’s faces.
other points of view with an open mind We endeavour to make a difference. delivering impactful and quality work.
and recognising the contribution/effort We believe in making wise decisions Learn as a Team
of one another. in every circumstance, even if it means We learn from one another by sharing
taking calculated risks in difficult or knowledge and resources and learning
unclear situations. from successes/failures to achieve
team success together.

--- PAGE 12 ---

4
REGIONAL
OFFICES
STB’s mandate to grow
Singapore’s tourism sector is
reinforced by a robust overseas
presence. Our global network
of 22 offices and 7 marketing
representatives promote
Americas Europe
Singapore as a destination
Americas, San Francisco United Kingdom, London Russia, Moscow
in seven key regions.
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
999 Baker Way, Suite 120 Singapore Centre Marketing Representative
San Mateo, California 94404 First Floor, Southwest House Action Global Communications
United States of America 11A Regent Street 6, Bld.2
London, SW1Y 4LR Nizhniy Kislovskiy lane
Americas, New York City United Kingdom 125009 Moscow, Russia
Singapore Tourism Board
589 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1702 Germany, Frankfurt Belgium, Brussels
New York, NY 10017 Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
United States of America Singapore Centre Avenue Louise 143/4
Bleichstrasse 45 1050 Brussels
60313 Frankfurt, Germany Belgium
Italy, Milan France, Paris
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
Marketing Representative Marketing Representative
PR & GO UP Communication Partners Interface Tourism France
Fabio Filzi, 27 16 Rue Ballu
20124 Milan, Italy 75009 Paris, France

--- PAGE 13 ---

5
Greater China India, Middle East
Beijing Chengdu & South Asia
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board India, Mumbai India, Bangalore
Unit 3101-3106 Unit 2102, F21, Tower 2 Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
China World Tower 1 Raffles City, No.3 Section 4 Singapore Centre Marketing Representative
No.1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue South Renmin Road Unit 216-217, The Capital 004, Workafella Business Centre,
Beijing 100004 Chengdu, 610041 Bandra Kurla Complex Infantry Road,
People’s Republic of China People’s Republic of China Bandra (East) Opp. Commisioner Office,
Mumbai 400051, India Vasanth Nagar,
Shanghai Hong Kong Bengaluru 560001, India
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board India, New Delhi
Unit 1509-11 Unit 3011 30/F Singapore Tourism Board United Arab Emirates, Dubai
Shui On Plaza Tower 1 Times Square Singapore Centre Singapore Tourism Board
333 Huai Hai Zhong Road 1 Matheson Street Unit 4A, 4th Floor Sultan Business Centre
Shanghai 200021 Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Aria Tower Unit 209
People’s Republic of China JW Marriott Asset Area 4 Oud Mehta Road
Taipei Delhi Aerocity PO Box 115804
Guangzhou Singapore Tourism Board Hospitality District Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Singapore Tourism Board Marketing Representative New Delhi 110037, India
Unit 6104 CITIC Plaza Connex Communications Co., Ltd
No.233 Tianhe North Road 3F No.156, Jiankang Road India, Chennai
Guangzhou, Tianhe District Songshan District Singapore Tourism Board
Guangdong 510613 Taipei City 10586, Taiwan Marketing Representative
People’s Republic of China 318, Workafella High Street,
New No.431, Anna salai,
Mount Road, Chennai
Tamil Nadu 600018, India

--- PAGE 14 ---

6
North Asia Oceania Southeast Asia
Japan, Tokyo Australia, Sydney Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh City Indonesia, Surabaya
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
#3414 Marunouchi Building 11th Floor AWA Building Unit 03, 11th Floor Regus Pakuwon Centre
2-4-1 Marunouchi 47 York Street Saigon Centre, Tower 2 Unit 2335, Level 23
Chiyoda-ku Sydney NSW 2000, Australia 67 Le Loi, District 1 Jalan Embong Malang No.1-5
Tokyo 100-6334, Japan Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Surabaya 60261, Indonesia
Australia, Melbourne
Korea, Seoul Singapore Tourism Board Thailand, Bangkok Malaysia & Brunei
Singapore Tourism Board Marketing Representative Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
3F Seoul Finance Center GTI Tourism Unit 1702-1703 Singapore Centre
136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu Ms Kerrin Trenorden 17th Floor Unit 6.3, 6th Floor
Seoul 04520, South Korea Kerrin.Trenorden@gtitourism.com.au Sathorn Square Office Tower Manara AIA Sentral
98 North Sathorn Road 30 Jalan Sultan Ismail
Silom, Bangrak 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Bangkok 10500, Thailand
Philippines, Manila
Indonesia, Jakarta Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Tourism Board Unit 0704, 7th Floor
19th Floor, Unit 01 Ayala Triangle Gardens Tower 2,
Maya Pada Tower 1 Ayala Triangle, Ayala Avenue,
Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 28 Makati City, Philippines
Jakarta 12920, Indonesia

--- PAGE 15 ---

RESILIENT CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S MESSAGE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
BUSINESS GROUPS
Singapore’s tourism sector has shown
both resilience and ingenuity. It is
well placed to meet the evolving
needs of visitors, whilst ensuring that
every aspect of their experience is
safe, yet delightfully memorable.
KCILC
N
LINKS TO NAVIGATE
O

--- PAGE 16 ---

8
A CHAT WITH
OUR CHAIRMAN
“
Q1 It’s been a year and a half now since the
world began grappling with COVID-19.
This pandemic has given us a Can we begin with your assessment of
once-in-a-generation opportunity where we are now?
The past year has been unpredictable and
to redefine ourselves as a safe,
tough for all of us in tourism. The industry has
innovative, and trusted destination –
continued to suffer from the effects of COVID-19
and we must seize it. We should and people have lost their jobs and livelihoods.
We feel for them and their families. But I am also
not aim for ‘business as usual’
proud of what I’ve seen. Everyone in the travel
and go back to the way things
industry has come together to find solutions
were before the pandemic. and help one another. They have innovated and
transformed their businesses. And they have
Mr Chaly Mah shown tremendous grit and resilience. This spirit,
Chairman, Singapore Tourism Board
and the new capabilities we have built, gives me
” confidence that we will reopen strongly when
international travel resumes in a substantial way.

--- PAGE 17 ---

9
But we’re not out of the woods yet. In that context, what do you see are the What must be done to address these?
Q2 Q3 Q4
When will things get back to normal key challenges and opportunities facing We begin by reimagining the travel and
for the industry? Singapore’s tourism sector? tourism model. As I’ve said, we cannot aim for
The next few years will remain difficult and lean. There are several, but four stand out. First, ‘business as usual’. COVID-19 obviously has
We don’t expect large-scale international tourism we have to reinforce Singapore’s position closed many of the world’s borders, including
to return quickly, as the situation here and as one of the world’s most trusted, valued, Singapore. Which is why we continue working
around the world remains fragile and fluid. But I innovative and safe destinations for business hard to maintain international mindshare.
am confident that our tourism sector will return and corporate travellers. Secondly, we need to By strengthening Singapore’s brand image
stronger than ever. We must be ready to capture integrate wellness offerings and experiences around the world and by reimagining our tourism
any growth opportunities in the short term, and into a modern city like Singapore so that it can offerings, we are well placed to capture pent-up
invest in new capabilities and hardware for the be transformed into a leading urban wellness demand when international travel resumes.
long term. This pandemic has given us a once-in- haven. Thirdly, Singapore has to become one of
a-generation opportunity to redefine ourselves as the world’s top sustainable urban destinations. We are supporting our partners in reimagining
a safe, innovative, and trusted destination – Lastly, we have to make Singapore a thriving Singapore through initiatives such as the
and we must seize it. We should not aim for market for great technology-solutions providers S$20 million Marketing Partnership Programme
‘business as usual’ and go back to the way and tech-savvy tourism companies. targeting attractions, hotels, inbound
things were before the pandemic. travel agents and the Meetings, Incentives,
Conventions & Exhibitions (MICE) industry;
and a S$2 million SG Stories Content Fund that
aims to be a springboard for local and
international content creators to tell authentic
stories of strength, resilience, solidarity and unity
in Singapore.
One of our most compelling initiatives this year
was SingapoReimagine, a platform designed
to engage, collaborate and co-create the future
of global travel. For our stakeholders – our
community in Singapore, and our local and
global partners – it’s a once-in-a-lifetime
chance to reset and reimagine what travel and
tourism will look like for the next generation.

--- PAGE 18 ---

10
These stories of new experiences will also form For example, Raffles Singapore partnered opening up new channels with new partners.
a platform for us to step up our efforts to market Let’s Go Tour to curate a two-hour private bicycle We’ve continued to engage with our audience,
Singapore as a MICE destination that’s known tour through the civic district around the hotel, both abroad and domestically. As we continue to
for safety, innovation and trust. while Zouk opened its dance floor to cycling build confidence and test our new protocols, we
classes and cinema screenings, and introduced ready ourselves for what is to come.
virtual clubbing. These partnerships created new
Q5 Can you talk a bit more products and experiences that are meaningful “
about partnerships? and exciting – not just to locals, but also our
A crisis requires like-minded partners to come future visitors.
A crisis requires like-minded
together and work towards the common goal
partners to come together
of survival. If nothing else, the pandemic has
shown us that we need partnerships to enable Q6 It feels like technology is a key driver and work towards the
innovation and generate insights. For instance, in STB’s efforts. What is next?
common goal of survival.
for the fifth consecutive year, we’re working with Absolutely, and we must continue to build our
If nothing else, the
our national airline, SIA, on several initiatives capabilities on that front. The industry cannot,
including in-market campaigns targeting inbound otherwise, effectively transform and stay on top pandemic has shown us
traffic when borders reopen. of visitor expectations. That’s why we’re working that we need partnerships
with various partners on a suite of new tools
to enable innovation and
We’ve also signed a three-year partnership with and technologies such as augmented and virtual
generate insights.
digital payment gateways like DBS, Visa and reality, contactless solutions, facial recognition
Mastercard to digitalise local businesses and and voice-enabled technologies.
”
stimulate tourism demand.
Last July, we successfully launched the Q7 We began by asking you for your
SingapoRediscovers campaign to rally support assessment of where the tourism sector
for local lifestyle and tourism businesses. This is now. What is your take on the future?
was complemented by the SingapoRediscovers Like my colleagues, I’m very hopeful. This hope
Vouchers (SRV) programme, which gives is based on Singapore’s strong fundamentals
every Singaporean citizen $100 to spend on which stood out over the past year. The world
staycations, tours and attractions. As a result of may have been locked down, but we’ve not been
these initiatives, we saw very interesting cross- idle. We’ve worked hard on a raft of initiatives
industry partnerships in the tourism sector. and programmes. We’ve been proactive in

--- PAGE 19 ---

11
CONVERSATION WITH
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
“
Q1 COVID-19 has been a major disruptor
to the global tourism industry,
Despite the severe disruptions including here in Singapore.
Are we now in a position where we
to air travel, we’ve kept our
can start to be hopeful?
connectivity to key cities
Yes – there is always room for hope, as opposed
largely intact. Local and foreign
to wishful thinking!
companies are still confident
about Singapore’s appeal as a
How so?
Q2
top destination, and they still
For starters, Singapore has handled the
want to invest in tourism products. COVID-19 pandemic very well – this is globally
recognised. Despite the severe disruptions to air
Mr Keith Tan travel, we’ve kept our connectivity to key cities
Chief Executive, Singapore Tourism Board largely intact. Local and foreign companies
” are still confident about Singapore’s appeal as
a top destination, and they still want to invest
in tourism products. Many tourism-related
companies in Singapore have maintained and
upgraded key capabilities and have even built
new capabilities that are relevant to the future,
such as digital ones. Most importantly, our data
and surveys tell us that travellers want to come
to Singapore as soon as they can. In other words,
the Singapore brand remains strong.

--- PAGE 20 ---

12
What does the future of the You mentioned competing together
Q3 Q4
industry look like? as an ecosystem. How will this benefit
There will be many elements that will look like the industry?
the past. Singapore’s tourism sector will continue This is absolutely crucial. When the world is
to pursue high-quality visitors, and these visitors ready to travel again, Singapore must decisively
will continue to have high expectations for the capture the upswing in international travel. There
experiences, activities and events in Singapore. is a great deal of pent-up demand. Doing so will
The tourism sector must therefore continue to require us to all work together. For example,
pursue people-centric excellence in order for us different companies in the tourism sector could
to stand out as a world-leading destination for pool their data and insights to build a stronger,
business and leisure travellers. joint product. Being in the same line of business
doesn’t mean that competitors cannot also be
At the same time, there will be changes. In fact, cooperating partners.
the winds of change were already blowing before
the onset of the pandemic. The industry needs to
build up its technological and digital capabilities Q5 STB’s Chairman, Mr Chaly Mah, spoke of
rapidly, in order to engage its target audiences the four key challenges and opportunities
more effectively, improve the experience of for Singapore’s tourism sector.
visitors (how can we dial up the “Wow!” factor?), Would you like to expand briefly on them?
and make more of Singapore more discoverable Yes. The first is that in a world where nearly Q6 Holistic wellness is also a key opportunity?
to more visitors – including those who cannot everything is remote – from Zoom and Webex The pandemic has made wellness a priority for
come to Singapore physically. to Teams – we need to reposition Singapore all of us. Wellness may not yet be a top-of-mind
as the world’s most trusted, valued, innovative association with Singapore amongst international
So, I hope to see a lot of experiments, trials, and safe destination for business and corporate travellers, but our local heritage brands like Yue
testbeds and cross-sectoral collaborations in travellers. A strong MICE industry is key. Last Hwa and Eu Yan Sang, alongside hotels and new
the tourism sector – in order to create great year, we developed the Event Industry Resilience businesses like the Trapeze Rec Club are offering
new experiences and offerings for our visitors Roadmap which lays out clear directions for busy city-dwellers a comprehensive range of
and for Singaporeans too. This will require our the capabilities that our MICE industry needs to holistic wellness services. We’re not just talking
industry to work much more collaboratively as build up. We have also set up two new offices in about spas, but also fitness and complementary
an ecosystem. Brussels and San Francisco to engage a larger therapies to augment one’s sense of overall
base of international organisations and key wellbeing. We see tremendous potential in this
decision makers to secure more high-quality area, for Singapore to create its own unique brand
business events for Singapore. of “urban wellness”.

--- PAGE 21 ---

13
“
Q7 In his 2021 May Day speech, Q8 Over the last few years, the tourism sector
the Prime Minister mentioned has made great strides in becoming more
The road ahead is full of environmental sustainability tech- and digitally-enabled.
opportunities – to engage as a challenge facing Singapore. That’s the fourth of the key challenges our
Does this apply to the tourism sector? chairman has referenced. Advances in
new visitor segments, to
Yes, sustainability is vital to the future of the data connectivity, 5G, artificial intelligence,
create new experiences,
tourism sector. In line with the Singapore Green gamification and so on have all had a profound
and to grow new capabilities Plan 2030, STB is developing its destination impact on the way people travel and experience
sustainability strategy and roadmap for the destinations. Between 2016 and 2020, we
in the tourism sector.
tourism sector. In fact, many of our tourism saved 7,000 man hours in productivity. By the
” businesses – including cruise lines, hotels, and end of 2021, over 30 hotels will have used
event organisers – have already embarked on STB’s E-Visitor Authentication system to reduce
their own sustainability efforts. physical touchpoints and simplify check-in
We want to scale up these efforts at the national processes. We have already achieved a lot, but
level so that we can make a real impact for there’s so much more to do as STB works with
Singapore. Ultimately, we want to be known our partner agencies to attract companies with
not just as one of the world’s most sustainable tourism-related tech and digital solutions.
city destinations, but also as a great place for
companies to testbed solutions for, say, a net
zero-carbon hotel or entertainment event. Q9 How would you summarise the
road ahead for Singapore?
The road ahead is full of opportunities –
to engage new visitor segments, to create new
experiences, and to grow new capabilities in the
tourism sector. Let’s press as hard as we can to
maximise the value of these opportunities for
the tourism sector and for Singapore!

--- PAGE 22 ---

14
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr Chaly Mah Mr Keith Tan Ms Joanna Flint
Chairman Chief Executive Board Member
Mr Chaly Mah worked at Deloitte for over 38 years. Mr Keith Tan assumed the appointment of Ms Joanna Flint is Chief Commercial Officer for
Prior to his retirement on 31 May 2016, he was CEO Chief Executive of the Singapore Tourism Board Mandarin Oriental and is responsible for its global
of Deloitte Asia Pacific and Chairman of Deloitte on 29 October 2018. marketing, sales, revenue management and distribution
Singapore, and Vice Chairman of Deloitte Global Board functions. Prior, she held senior leadership positions
of Directors. He has extensive experience serving From 2014-2018, he served as the Deputy in Google Asia Pacific from 2009-2021 including
both multinational and local companies across a Secretary (Policy) in the Ministry of Defence, Managing Director of Google’s Partner Business and
wide spectrum of industries, specialising in financial where he strengthened Singapore’s international Managing Director for Google Singapore where she
services, telecommunications and technology, real defence partnerships, led MINDEF’s longer-term oversaw sales and business development from its
estate, private equity and manufacturing. strategic planning and guided MINDEF’s strategic regional headquarters.
communications and public engagement efforts.
Mr Mah is currently Chairman of Surbana Jurong Before Google, Ms Flint was Principal Consultant at
Group, Netlink NBN Management Pte Ltd, the From 2013-2014, Keith was concurrently the OgilvyOne Asia-Pacific from 2004-2008. Prior, she spent
Singapore Accountancy Commission and National Senior Director of the Public Service Division’s a decade in the aviation industry leading global digital
University of Singapore Business School Accounting PS21 Office, and Institute Director in the Institute of transformation and change management programs in
Advisory Board. He is also board member of Governance and Policy at Singapore’s Civil Service commerce and marketing for British Airways from
Capitaland Limited, Flipkart Pte Ltd, SG Eco Fund, College. Keith also served in the Ministry of Trade 1997-2001, and as Global Sales and Digital Marketing
Monetary Authority of Singapore and the National and Industry (MTI) as Director of the Economics leader in Singapore Airlines from 2001-2004.
University of Singapore Board of Trustee. and Strategy Division (2008-2010) and the Foreign
Economic Policy Division (2010-2013). Ms Flint is a well-regarded speaker at industry events
on topics of digital, innovation, and women in the
workplace. She is an active member of the Young
President’s Organisation (YPO) and an advocate
of female programmes in tech. She has authored
publications, including the new path to purchase,
‘Winning the Zero Moment of Truth – Asia’.
Ms Flint graduated from the University
of Manchester with a degree in Politics
and Philosophy, and holds an MSc,
Major Programme Management from
the University of Oxford.

--- PAGE 23 ---

15
Ms Audrey Kuah Mr Allen Law Mr Aaron Maniam
Board Member Board Member Board Member
Ms Audrey Kuah is the former Executive Director, Mr Allen Law is the Chief Executive Officer of Park Mr Aaron Maniam is currently Deputy Secretary
Media Practice – Asia Pacific at Dentsu Aegis Hotel Group (PHG), a leading hospitality company (Industry and Information) at the Ministry of
Network. As Executive Director, Media Practice – in Asia Pacific. At PHG, he is responsible for the Communications and Information. From September
Asia Pacific, she was responsible for the evolution Group’s global growth, advancing its core business 2014 to September 2017, Mr Maniam was Senior
of the business model and future capabilities. in the development, ownership, and management of Director (Industry) at the Ministry of Trade and
She was also global head of its first R&D Centre, hospitality assets. His strategic focus is to lead the Industry, where he was responsible for coordinating
where she was responsible for the development of organisation to drive its triple bottom-line in People, economic policies and regulating the manufacturing,
proprietary and future forward marketing platforms Planet and Profit; increasing returns for hotels by services and tourism sectors, as well as overseeing
that combined machine learning, artificial intelligence, delivering exceptional lifestyle experiences, while long-term economic transformation.
cloud technology and the deep marketing expertise positively impacting the environment and the people
of Dentsu Group. Ms Kuah was also its Chief Client in the communities in which PHG is present. Mr Maniam has held various positions in the Civil
Officer, Southeast Asia and former Singapore CEO. Service, including postings at the Ministry of Foreign
Under his leadership, PHG grew from a single hotel Affairs; and the Strategic Policy Office and Centre for
Ms Kuah’s expertise in marketing, digital and in Hong Kong to a multinational company with Strategic Futures in the Public Service Division; and
advertising has been deployed across industries multi-property portfolio across 11 destinations in the Civil Service College. He is a member of the
and geographies, for more than two decades. countries including Singapore, China, Japan, Board of Governors of Raffles Institution and the
Ms Kuah is active in the industry and is on the Maldives, Malaysia, and Australia. PHG today has World Economic Forum’s Global Future Council on
Board of Intellectual Property Office of Singapore nearly 30 hotels operating or in the pipeline within Agile Governance.
International. She was also a member of the Future its collection of brands comprising Grand Park,
Economy Council Modern Services Sub-Committee. Park Hotel and Destination, as well as Park Rewards
loyalty programme.
Ms Kuah was awarded an MBA from the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business in 2007 and
graduated with a B.A. from National University of
Singapore in 1992.

--- PAGE 24 ---

16
Mr Lim Eng Hwee Mr Ravi Thakran Mr Prasad Menon
Board Member Board Member Board Member
Mr Lim Eng Hwee is the Chief Executive Officer of the Mr Ravi Thakran founded L Capital Asia in 2008 and Mr Prasad R. Menon is a Chemical Engineer from the
Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) with effect led it as Chairman and Managing Partner from its Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. He has over
from 1 September 2017. URA is Singapore’s national inception. Mr Thakran led the development of L Capital 45 years of diverse experience in some of the premier
planning agency, responsible for the physical planning Asia which went on to become one of the largest multinational and Indian companies.
and urban development of Singapore. consumer-focused growth investors in Asia.
With L Capital Asia, he invested in over 35 companies Mr Menon started his career with the Imperial
Mr Lim was formerly the Chief Planner and Deputy across Asia Pacific. Five of these companies crossed Chemical Industries (ICI) and served for 20 years,
Chief Executive Officer of URA from 2009-2017. $1 billion in annual revenues. followed by another 11 years at Nagarjuna Group.
He has extensive experience in urban planning, In October 2000, Mr Menon took over as the
urban design, implementation of land use policies and Mr Thakran also served in many senior roles in several Managing Director of Tata Chemicals and in October
development initiatives. He also served in the business verticals of the LVMH Group, the world’s 2006, he took over as the Managing Director of Tata
Ministry of National Development and Ministry of largest luxury goods company. Over two decades Power, the largest integrated private power utility
Trade and Industry. at LVMH, he eventually assumed the roles of Group in India. He has championed sustainability as a key
President for LVMH South Asia & South East Asia, strategic initiative in the organisation.
He served as a member in the Boards of Land Australia & New Zealand and Middle East in 2009 and
Transport Authority, Singapore Cooperation Enterprise Group Chairman for LVMH South Asia & South East Mr Menon subsequently served on several Tata
and Singapore Science Centre. He currently sits on Asia, Australia & New Zealand and Middle East in 2015. Boards, including being the first Chairman of
the Boards of Singapore Tourism Board, National Prior to his time at LVMH, Mr Thakran held senior Tata-Singapore Airlines in India. He has deep
Environment Agency and the International Federation management positions at the Swatch Group, Nike and interest in the NGO/Development areas, and has
for Housing and Planning. the Tata Group. been associated with organisations in the fields of
environment, sustainability, wildlife conservation
Mr Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Planning Mr Thakran holds an MBA from the Indian Institute and academia. Mr Menon currently serves as an
from the University of Auckland. He also holds of Management, Ahmedabad. Beyond his corporate Independent Director on the Boards of Dr.Reddys
a Master in Public Administration from Harvard responsibilities, he serves as Business Ambassador Laboratories and the Sanmar Group.
University and attended the Wharton Advanced for Latin America in South East Asia, and Trustee of
Management Program at the the Global Conservation Corps. He is also
University of Pennsylvania. involved in the Federal Commission
on Fashion and Women’s Wellness in
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Indian
Partition Museum, Amritsar, Indian
Heritage Museum, Singapore
and Save the Rhino Project,
South Africa.

--- PAGE 25 ---

17
Ms Thien Kwee Eng Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni Mrs Wong Ai Ai
Board Member Board Member Board Member
Ms Thien Kwee Eng assumed the appointment of Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni has been a partner in Mrs Wong Ai Ai is recognised as one of Baker
Chief Executive Officer of Sentosa Development PwC LLP Singapore since 2012. He started in PwC McKenzie’s most distinguished lawyers, with a
Corporation (SDC) on 1 June 2020. as an associate in 2000 and has over 20 years of career that spans from leading a range of landmark
experience in the audit industry, three of which were transactions for blue-chip clients, to global
Prior to that, Kwee Eng was the Executive Vice President spent on secondment to the PwC US Firm in its San management and leadership roles at the highest
of the Singapore Economic Development Board Francisco office. He is also one of the Firm’s partner levels of the Firm, including serving as a member of
(EDB) overseeing EDB’s global customer experience, contacts as it relates to US Accounting and Auditing the Global Executive Committee and Chair of the Asia
marketing & public affairs and investment facilitation matters as well as US-bound cross border security Pacific Region (2016-2020).
activities. Kwee Eng has held leadership roles in transactions. Saiful’s areas of specialty are in the
investment promotion and industry development Energy and Mining as well as Technology, Transport As a transactional lawyer, Mrs Wong has been
across various sectors during her time in EDB, including and Aerospace sectors. He is actively involved in the recognised as a leading individual and eminent
Consumer and Lifestyle businesses, Health and audits of SEC registrants. practitioner for Corporate/M&A matters by
Wellness as well as Infocomm and Media. She has also publications including Chambers Asia Pacific, Legal
led corporate-wide initiatives to catalyse new business Mr Saroni also sits on the Boards of Mercy Relief, 500 Asia Pacific and IFLR1000.
creation and innovation in large corporations. Building and Construction Authority and Singapore
Anti-Narcotics Association, and on the SkillsFuture Outside of Baker McKenzie, Mrs Wong is Board
From 2000-2001, Kwee Eng was Business Fellowships and SkillsFuture Employer Awards Director at the Singapore Tourism Board and Director
Development Director of Asiacontent.com’s business Triparties Judging Panel. He is also a member of M3 of Singapore Tyler Print Institute (STPI). She is also
in China. She also served as First Secretary (Trade Advisory Council, as well as the Woodlands Citizens’ a strong advocate for, and former Chairman of, the
and Industry) at the Embassy of Singapore in Beijing Consultative Committee. Yellow Ribbon Fund.
from 2001 to 2004 and was responsible for promoting
Singapore-China trade and industry relations. He graduated with a Bachelor of Accountancy from Mrs Wong is one of a small number of
Nanyang Technological University (Honours). He Singaporeans appointed to the role of Justice
Kwee Eng serves on the Board of the Singapore is a member of ISCA, as well as a member of the of the Peace, a role awarded to “outstanding
Food Agency and Women’s Forum Asia. In 2017, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Singaporeans who have made significant
she was conferred the Public Administration Medal contributions in their professions, the public
(Silver). Kwee Eng graduated from the service, social services and the
National University of Singapore community at large”.
with a Bachelor of Social Sciences
in Economics.

--- PAGE 26 ---

18
SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
Mr Keith Tan Ms Lynette Pang Ms Jeannie Lim
Chief Executive Assistant Chief Executive, Assistant Chief Executive,
Marketing Group Policy & Planning Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Mr Chang Chee Pey Mr Wong Ming Fai
Deputy Chief Executive, Assistant Chief Executive, Chief Technology Officer & QSM,
Corporate Group & International Group Technology Transformation Group
Experience Development Group
* Ms Lynette Pang will be seconded to the National Arts Council as Deputy Chief Executive, Planning & Corporate Development on 1 December 2021.
Mr Chang Chee Pey will be appointed Assistant Chief Executive, Marketing Group on 29 November 2021.
Ms Juliana Kua will be appointed Assistant Chief Executive, International Group on 29 November 2021.

--- PAGE 27 ---

19
BUSINESS GROUPS
Corporate Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Ong Siew Hwee Ms Chew Chien Way Mr Evan Koh
Deputy Chief Executive, Director, Director, Director,
Corporate Group & Finance Human Resources & Legal
Experience Development Group Organisation Development
Ms Hazel Teh Ms Geraldine Yeo Mr Alfred Chiam
Director, Principal Specialist Head,
Compliance & Corporate Services (Learning) Internal Audit,
Chairman’s Office
* The Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) and administratively to the Chief Executive.

--- PAGE 28 ---

2
0
Marketing Group
Ms Lynette Pang Mr Terrence Voon Ms Lilian Chee
Assistant Chief Executive, Director, Director,
Marketing Group Communications & Marketing Capability Industry Marketing
Ms Georgina Koh Ms Choo Huei Miin Ms Jacqueline Ng
Director, Director, Director,
Digital & Content Brand Marketing Partnerships & Planning
* Ms Lynette Pang will be seconded to the National Arts Council as Deputy Chief Executive, Planning & Corporate Development on 1 December 2021.
Mr Chang Chee Pey will be appointed Assistant Chief Executive, Marketing Group on 29 November 2021.

--- PAGE 29 ---

2
1
Experience Development Group
Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Jean Ng Dr Edward Koh Mr Andrew Phua
Deputy Chief Executive, Executive Director, Executive Director, Executive Director,
Corporate Group & Attractions, Entertainment & Conventions, Meetings & Incentive Travel Exhibitions & Conferences
Experience Development Group Tourism Concept Development
Mr Poh Chi Chuan Ms Serene Tan Ms Lim Shoo Ling Ms Ong Ling Lee
Executive Director (Designate), Director, Director, Director,
Exhibitions & Conferences Retail & Dining, Arts & Cultural Precincts Sports
& Safe Management Measures Operations
* Mr Andrew Phua will be appointed Executive Director (Designate), Greater China on 16 September 2021, and then Executive Director, Greater China on 15 November 2021.
Mr Poh Chi Chuan will be appointed Executive Director, Exhibitions & Conferences on 16 September 2021.

--- PAGE 30 ---

2
2
Policy & Planning Group
Ms Jeannie Lim Ms Ranita Sundramoorthy Ms Cherie Lee Mr Kenneth Lim
Assistant Chief Executive, Executive Director, Director, Director,
Policy & Planning Group Infrastructure Planning & Management Strategic Planning & Incentive Policy Travel Agents & Tourist Guides,
& Tourism Human Capital Office
Ms Tan Yen Nee Ms Annie Chang Ms Geraldine Yeo
Director, Director, Principal Specialist,
Hospitality Cruise Stay-Home Notice Operations
* The former Hotel and Sector Manpower division was renamed Hospitality.

--- PAGE 31 ---

2
3
Technology Transformation Group
Mr Wong Ming Fai Ms Ong Huey Hong Ms Serene Fong Ms Lim Pei Shan
Chief Technology Officer & QSM, Executive Director, Director, Director,
Technology Transformation Group Industry Technology Transformation Data Science and Analytics Visitor Experience
Ms Karen Ann Leong Ms Goh Kershing Ms Shameem Mustaffa
Chief, Senior Vice President, Chief Data Officer
The Collaboratory Strategic Partnerships & Alliances
* Mr Lai Yew Meng is the Covering Director & Agency Chief Information Security Officer, Information Services.

--- PAGE 32 ---

2
4
International Group
Mr Chang Chee Pey Mr Oliver Chong Mr John Gregory Conceicao Ms Carrie Kwik Ms Juliana Kua
Assistant Chief Executive, Executive Director, Executive Director, Executive Director, Chief Representative &
International Group International Relations, Southeast Asia Europe Executive Director, Greater China
Market Planning & Oceania
Mr Soo Siew Keong Mr G B Srithar Mr Markus Tan Ms Rachel Loh
Director, Regional Director, Regional Director, Senior Vice President,
Trade Engagement India, Middle East North Asia Americas
& New Markets & South Asia
* Mr Chang Chee Pey will be appointed Assistant Chief Executive, Marketing Group on 29 November 2021.
Ms Juliana Kua will be appointed Assistant Chief Executive, International Group on 29 November 2021.
Mr Andrew Phua will be appointed Executive Director, Greater China on 15 November 2021.

--- PAGE 33 ---

REINVENT
Technology is at the heart of creating
a new world-leading standard for travel.
From contactless technology and cleaning
robots, to cutting-edge digital tools and
apps, Singapore aims to make travel
both safer, yet seamless and efficient.
KCILC
N
LINKS TO NAVIGATE
O
TOURISM SECTOR PERFORMANCE
CALENDAR OF EVENTS
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES

--- PAGE 34 ---

REINVENT
2
6
TOURISM SECTOR
PERFORMANCE 2020
TOURISM RECEIPTS AND
Overview
INTERNATIONAL VISITOR ARRIVALS
The tourism sector in 2020 recorded
declines in International Visitor Arrivals
S$
(IVA) and Tourism Receipts (TR) amid S$ 26 S$ .8 26 S$ .9 27.7
25.7
the COVID-19 pandemic.
Tourism
From January to December 2020, Receipts
IVA declined 85.7% over the same (S$Bil)
period last year to 2.7 million visitors.
TR is at S$4.8 billion, a decline of
82.6% compared to the same period
4.8
S$
last year. The decrease in TR can be 19.1 billion
18.5
observed across all components.
17.4
16.4
International
Visitor
Arrivals
(Mil)
2.7
million
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

--- PAGE 35 ---

REINVENT — TOURISM SECTOR PERFORMANCE 2020
2
7
TOURISM RECEIPTS1 BY
BY MAJOR COMPONENTS
Due to the impact of COVID-19, declines were
% change % Share Tourism
recorded across all major components – vs 2019 Receipts
Shopping (-88%), Accommodation (-82%), F&B (-82%), 88% (S$Mil)
SEG (-84%) and Other TR Components (-79%).
S$
15% 703
Shopping
82%
S$
21% 1,022
Accommodation
82%
S$
9% 454
84%
Food & Beverage
S$
20% 951
Sightseeing,
79% Entertainment
& Gaming
S$
35% 1,700
Other TR
Components2
1 Expenditure is estimated from Disembarkation/Embarkation
Cards, SG Arrival Cards and Overseas Visitors Survey.
2 Other TR components include expenditure on airfares on
Singapore based carriers, port taxes, local transportation, 2020
business, medical and education-related items, and by transit/
transfer visitors, as well as COVID-19 related costs.

--- PAGE 36 ---

REINVENT — TOURISM SECTOR PERFORMANCE 2020
2
8
TOURISM RECEIPTS1 BY
MAJOR COMPONENTS,
TOP 10 MARKETS
Tourism Receipts for 2020 were estimated
at S$4.8 billion with Mainland China
(S$624 million), Indonesia (S$562 million) % Change vs 2019
and India (S$291 million) making up the top 2020 TR3 Food & Other TR Tourism Visitor
(S$Mil) Shopping Accommodation Beverage Components2 Receipts Arrivals
three markets. Collectively, these countries
contributed to 41% of Tourism Receipts Overall S$ 3,879
(excluding Sightseeing, Entertainment and
18% 26% 12% 44% 82% 85.7%
Gaming), with most coming from the earlier
part of the year pre-COVID. Mainland
624
S$
China 33% 21% 8% 38% 85% 90%
Indonesia S$ 562
20% 15% 8% 57% 82% 85%
India S$ 291
18% 30% 13% 40% 82% 88%
235
Australia S$
11% 33% 11% 46% 82% 82%
178
Japan S$
14% 31% 10% 46% 85% 86%
149
USA S$
10% 36% 16% 39% 83% 83%
138
UK S$
6% 32% 14% 48% 79% 78%
135
Malaysia S$
21% 22% 10% 46% 82% 87%
1 Expenditure is estimated from Overseas Visitors Survey
and secondary data sources. 133
2 Other TR components include expenditure on airfares on Vietnam S$
Singapore based carriers, port taxes, local transportation,
18% 19% 13% 49% 80% 87%
business, medical and education-related items, and by transit/
transfer visitors, as well as COVID-19 related costs. Philippines S$ 125
3 Sightseeing, Entertainment & Gaming has been excluded in the 17% 27% 16% 40% 83% 88%
country analysis due to commercial sensitivity of information.

--- PAGE 37 ---

REINVENT
2
9
CALENDAR OF EVENTS
May 2020 August 2020
MARQUEE Singapore’s First Singapore Food Festival 2020 AquaGastronomy Hawker Day Out
Anniversary Virtual Party
MARQUEE Singapore went virtual for
its first anniversary celebrations on
22 May 2020. A-list DJs Nicky Romero,
Steve Aoki and Andrew Rayel staged
back-to-back performances for music
fans in Singapore and overseas on live-
streaming platforms Zoom and Twitch.
The event also kicked off a new Photo: Resort World Sentosa
series of virtual clubbing experiences For the first time in 27 years, the Singapore’s first and only underwater This inaugural event was organised
throughout May and June, headlined Singapore Food Festival 2020 was destination dining experience – by the Chinatown Complex Hawkers’
by world-renowned DJs including Dash held in a hybrid format. The event AquaGastronomy – was an immersive Association to celebrate hawker
Berlin, MarLo and Paul Van Dyk. featured 18 live masterclasses, dining concept where guests of culture and enable locals to rediscover
two virtual food tours, and Resorts World Sentosa enjoyed the various hawkers and their food
partnerships with Glico, Uniqlo, a four-course themed dinner in offerings in Chinatown Complex. The
Cedele and Brewerkz to develop bespoke dining pods, while watching event included virtual and physical
exclusive festival merchandise. divers feed and engage with sea food tours, along with complex-wide
The event generated over 500,000 creatures in the Open Ocean Tank. activations. The event saw up to 50%
unique views (exceeding the original Atmospheric music and ambient increase in business for hawkers
target of 49,000), and close to lighting complemented each course. and up to 70% increase in business
S$100,000 in sales. The dining experience was so well- for retail merchants. After the event,
received, it was sold out and extended hawkers reported sustained increase
several times. in footfall from new and younger
customers. In addition, one of
the tours launched at the event,
Old School Snacks, saw good publicity
and traction, and is now an evergreen
product by Tribe tours.

--- PAGE 38 ---

3
0
September 2020 October 2020
Evening in the Wild – Night Safari APAC MedTech by APACMed Mid-Autumn Festival ONE Championship
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: Wildlife Reserves Singapore Video: Singapore Exhibition and Convention Bureau Photo: Kreta Ayer Community Club Photo: ONE Championship
This unique experience at The first ever hybrid forum organised This much loved festival took on a ONE Championship was the first
Night Safari featured a thrilling tram by APACMed, the APAC MedTech virtual format. The street light-up, international sports event to resume
ride through a lush forest where Virtual Forum brought together which spanned from 17 September to with foreign athletes on 9 October
participants could observe and learn the medical devices and in-vitro 16 October 2020, was accompanied 2020. The Mixed Martial Arts
more about nocturnal wildlife. The diagnostics industries for the first by new virtual experiences such as live event was held with robust Safe
experience culminated in a four-course time since the COVID-19 pandemic. streaming of the opening ceremony, a Management Measures in place.
wine-pairing gourmet feast hosted It was the second MICE pilot to test 360-degree virtual tour, themed escape It was also the first international sports
by an on-site sommelier. the Safe Business Events Framework room games, and a lantern painting event to allow physical spectators
and successfully executed Safe competition. Kreta Ayer Community and welcomed an audience of 250
Management Measures for up to Centre, the main organiser of the who went through pre-event testing.
50 persons. The event achieved a event, reached over 417,000 virtual
record-breaking turnout of 1,450 audiences, and saw a 12% increase The year saw a total of four ONE
virtual attendees, twice its average in Facebook followers, and 33% events in Singapore, one of which was
physical attendance of 700. The increase in Instagram followers. closed-door, while the other three had
segment featuring in-person CEOs – 250 spectators each. All events were
‘APACMed’s Meet the Regional CEOs broadcast in over 150 countries.
Series’ – saw 300 concurrent viewers
engaging in a lively Q&A.

--- PAGE 39 ---

N
LINKS TO NAVIGATE
E T
U R N
TO
C
LI C K
O
R
3
1
Doraemon’s Time Travelling Singapore International
Deepavali Celebrations 2020 Adventures in Singapore Energy Week 2020 (SIEW)
Four bilateral agreements were
signed during the event:
— Australia-Singapore Memorandum
of Understanding on
Low-Emissions Solutions
— Memorandum of Understanding
with Energy Commission, Malaysia,
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: Little India Shopkeepers & Heritage Association Photo: National Museum of Singapore Video: Singapore International Energy Week to strengthen bilateral cooperation
The Deepavali Celebrations 2020 The three-month exhibition at the SIEW 2020 was the first pilot hybrid in the energy sector
(3 October to 6 December 2020) National Museum of Singapore event which marked the resumption — Memorandum of Understanding
saw the first hybrid edition of the took visitors on a time-travelling of MICE events in Singapore. With with Electrical and Mechanical
festival. Organised by the Little India adventure with Doraemon, the nearly 250 participants onsite, it Services Department, Hong Kong,
Shopkeepers & Heritage Association Japanese robot cat, through highlights was the premier platform in Asia to enhance cooperation
(LISHA), the Official Light-up and of the museum’s collections from the for insights and dialogue on energy towards greater energy security
Opening Ceremony was livestreamed, 1960s through to the 1980s. issues. Over 1,800 virtual exhibition and resilience
whilst on-ground experiences like visitors and 20,000 online viewers — Joint Statement of Intent to
guided tours and Deepavali renditions participated in the event, which Cooperate with the Gas and Energy
of signature dishes at participating saw over 14.5 million impressions Market Authority, United Kingdom
Little India restaurants complemented across SIEW’s social media platforms.
virtual masterclasses and online
programming. The digitised focus
saw more than 26,000 page views
and 130,000 post engagements on
LISHA’s social media platforms.

--- PAGE 40 ---

3
2
November 2020
Singapore Mice Forum
RazerCon JeweLuxe 2020 Singapore Cocktail Festival 2020 @ MICE Connect
In its first virtual edition, the Co-organised by STB and the
Singapore Cocktail Festival (SGCF) Singapore Association of Convention
showcased the vibrant cocktail & Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers,
scene in Singapore and around the the special edition of the forum shared
world, as well as socially responsible developments in Singapore’s MICE and
cocktail exploration. events industry and showcased the
Photo: JeweLuxe World resilience of the industry.
RazerCon 2020, the first ever online JeweLuxe is an annual home-grown Highlights included:
convention held by homegrown festival that brings together local and — SGCF CITY TAKEOVER: Singapore’s
gaming brand Razer, launched a international independent jewellery cocktail bars featured signature
15-hour virtual event which was houses, designers and watchmakers. cocktails inspired by the
livestreamed on Facebook, Twitter, The 2020 edition was decentralised neighbourhoods in which they
YouTube, and GameSport, as well as into a four-month-long island-wide were located.
at its Las Vegas store. The spotlight festival, with highlights livestreamed — SGCF ON WHEELS: Cocktail lovers
was shone on Singapore as co-founder on platforms like Facebook and purchased limited production
Tan Min-Liang delivered his keynote Instagram to reach Southeast bottled cocktails from their
address against a mixed-reality Asian consumers. favourite cocktail bars.
backdrop of Singapore’s picturesque — SGCF PISCO NIGHT: In collaboration
Marina Bay skyline. This new format was complemented with PROMPERÚ, Peru’s export
by experiential events in the stores of and tourism agency, Peru’s
The celebrations were marked by ten local watches and jewellery brands premier spirit was included in
product launches, tech demos, game and retailers. local Singaporean creations by
reveals, a grand raffle, and a virtual the city’s best cocktail bars.
electronic dance music after-party — SGCF ON TOUR: Limited production
with performances by Deadmau5, the bottled cocktails were created
internationally renowned electronic by five of the world’s best bars,
music producer. Over 175 million whose guest bartenders hosted
impressions were garnered across online masterclasses.
Razer’s social media platforms, with
over 250,000 hours streamed in
the United Kingdom, United States,
Canada and China.

--- PAGE 41 ---

3
3
Kiztopia’s school holidays
programming: ECOpia School
TravelRevive 2020 BestCities Summit 2020 Holiday Enrichment
Highlights included:
— MICE MEMORANDA OF
UNDERSTANDING (MoU): STB inked
a one-year MoU with Informa for a
new international technology event
targeting the infocomm, media and
tech ecosystems. STB also signed
a three-year and one-year MoU with
Messe Munich and Fiera Milano
respectively to establish their
South-East Asian headquarters
in Singapore. Photo: BestCities Photo: Kiztopia
— IAEE ASIA HYBRID FORUM: The annual BestCities Global Forum A three-week event by Kiztopia,
WHERE INNOVATION AND is hosted by the BestCities Global Singapore’s largest indoor
IMAGINATION MEET: examined the Alliance for its partners, industry edutainment centre, the ECOpia School
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO transformation of the exhibitions peers, and international associations Holiday Enrichment programme
Video: Singapore Exhibition and Convention Bureau
industry post-COVID-19 through to engage in knowledge exchange. (25 November to 18 December 2020)
Powered by ITB Asia and STB, digital capabilities of MICE venues 2020’s hybrid event featured a encouraged children to explore the
TravelRevive was the first pilot of the future. highlight segment held at Marina Bay causes and effects of human activity
tradeshow to trial the hybrid tradeshow Sands’ Hybrid Broadcast Studio, where on Mother Nature.
prototype for safe business events, >1,000 46 associations, nearly 50 in-person
itineraries, and digital enablers attendees, and 130 meeting planners
attendees
in Singapore. Nearly 1,000 local and partners gathered to learn about
local and
and international participants and international the hybridisation of events.
exhibitors attended the event at participants
and exhibitors
Marina Bay Sands, which was also
the first travel tradeshow to be
held physically in the Asia-Pacific
during COVID-19.

--- PAGE 42 ---

3
4
Singapore International Orchard Road Christmas on a
Great Indian Food Festival 2020 Photography Festival (SIPF) 2020 Black Friday 2020 Great Street 2020
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: Art Photography Centre Ltd (DECK) Photo: Orchard Road Business Association Video: Orchard Road Business Association
The seventh edition of the biennial The inaugural Orchard Road Black Organised by the Orchard Road
SIPF (5 November 2020 to 31 January Friday event, organised by the Orchard Business Association, the annual
2021) was held across 17 locations in Road Business Association, marked Christmas on a Great Street 2020 (13
Photo: Indian Restaurants Association (Singapore) Singapore, including the Civic District, Orchard Road’s very first precinct- November 2020 to 1 January 2021)
Organised by the Indian Restaurants Art and Heritage District, Orchard wide hybrid event, and featured a was dedicated to frontline workers
Association (Singapore), the three- Road and cultural precincts, and saw wide array of its retail, lifestyle, and to thank them for their commitment
week hybrid event included online over 230,000 unique attendees. This cultural offerings through both online during these difficult times. Through
masterchef classes and nutrition edition expanded its festival grounds and offline platforms. Members of partnerships with platforms such as
talks, an Instagram filter competition, to include a main exhibition at 37 the public had access to daily 12-hour Lions of Healthcare, the Association
a social media game, and a food trail. Emerald Hill, activated by the works livestreams over the three-day event, thanked healthcare staff, security
Foodies were treated to unique Indian of talented local and international and were also able to participate in guards, delivery workers and other
dishes like Truffle Masala Dosa, and photographers. SIPF 2020 also online games, giveaways, and join frontline workers with promotions for
took up a Spicy Curry Challenge at featured the Singapore edition of virtual tours to enjoy the full offerings shopping, dining, and services. For the
participating restaurants in Little India. French street artist JR’s project of Orchard Road from the comfort of first time, the festival introduced an all-
Inside Out in Chinatown, Little India their own homes. The event achieved a new virtual tour featuring 360-degree
and Kampong Glam; and virtual tours total viewership of over 45,000, whilst views of the iconic light display which
exploring Singapore’s neighbourhoods over 170 promotions were secured as allowed fans from around the globe to
with local photographers. part of the festivities. enjoy the light-up from the comfort of
their own homes.

--- PAGE 43 ---

3
5
December 2020
Milken Institute Standard Chartered Singapore Launch of ‘Once Upon A Time on the Walk of Lights by
Asia Summit 2020 Marathon 2020 (SCSM 2020) Orient Express’ pop-up attraction Christmas Wonderland 2020
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: Milken Institute Asia Center Video: The IRONMAN Group Photo: Gardens by the Bay
The Milken Institute Asia Summit SCSM 2020 had a unique hybrid The seventh edition of one of
2020 convened 250 in-person and race format with virtual and physical Singapore’s biggest Christmas
over 1,100 government, civic and components. The SCSM Virtual Photos: Visionairs In Art Pte Ltd festivities was transformed by
business leaders to reimagine ideas, Club (24 August – December 2020) This six-month-long pop-up attraction organisers Blue Sky Events into a
policies, and business models for a provided runners with weekly at Gardens by the Bay was the first hybrid event at Gardens by the Bay.
more inclusive, safe, and sustainable challenges and training tips, and saw time two of the legendary Orient The virtual debut allowed visitors of
global community. The seventh edition over 124,000 participants interacting Express’ original train carriages and all ages to explore an online magical
saw the piloting of the Summit’s first through the platform. The traditional locomotive have left France. Visitors realm via a desktop or mobile app.
hybrid model, including the use of live race weekend was replaced with a immersed themselves in a larger- The virtual offerings included a private
holographic technology that brought Grand Finale, where runners could than-life world of artefacts, interactive call with Santa, a multiplayer Midnight
speakers ‘live’ to Singapore in real “Race as One” from around the displays, and historical facts about the Snowball Fight, carnival games,
time. In partnership with the Monetary world at their own time, indoors or Orient Express’ astonishing journey puzzles, personalised e-cards, and an
Authority of Singapore, the Summit outdoors. Through augmented reality, from Europe to the Orient. The pop- e-marketplace. Alongside the online
was held alongside Singapore FinTech runners created avatars that could up also included a replica dining car festivities, visitors could also take a
Festival 2020, the largest fin-tech navigate a virtual Singapore “dream” in which diners enjoyed a Michelin- 370-metre walk to view nine stunning
festival in the world. route covering our iconic sights and starred gourmet meal. light installations in person at the
landmarks in real time. Walk of Lights.

--- PAGE 44 ---

3
6
Marina Bay Singapore Anime Festival Asia
My Community Festival Countdown 2021 Singapore 2020 Online Culture Cartel Digital 2020
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: My Community Ltd Photo: Urban Redevelopment Authority Video: Anime Festival Asia Singapore Photo: Culture Cartel Pte Ltd
My Community Festival (4 to 20 The Marina Bay Singapore Countdown A staple of the anime scene, Anime The third edition of Culture Cartel,
December 2020) was an inaugural 2021 featured two key highlights – Festival Asia Singapore went virtual Asia’s all-encompassing street
community grounds-up initiative the Shine a Light display at in 2020. Fans from around the world culture convention, was refashioned
comprising a series of co-curated The Promontory and Share the engaged online with their favourite into a virtual world. The free-for-
workshops and tours in the heartlands Moment, a showcase of student artistes, 30 of whom headlined all online event – live-streamed on
and cultural precincts. Tickets were artworks inspired by stories of good the two action-packed days at the Culture Cartel’s website, YouTube
almost sold-out with a total of 11,203 and transformed into projection event. Initiated in 2008, the festival is channel and Facebook page, and
attendees. The event saw an overall mapping on the facades of The amongst the largest Japanese pop LazLive – attracted international
participation satisfaction of 98%, Fullerton Hotel Singapore, the Merlion, culture events in the region. and local subculture labels, artists
with 86% of attendees finding the and ArtScience Museum. and musicians to a lively roster of
event format innovative. Precinct masterclasses, performances and
stakeholders also reported new talks. Over 28,000 unique visitors
and younger customers after the toured the virtual world which featured
festival ended. customised interactive digital booths
showcasing product launches
and exclusive campaign peeks of
streetwear favourites, and giveaways
of exclusive sneaker drops.

--- PAGE 45 ---

3
7
January 2021
Mobile Legends Bang Bang:
Back to Live Flock: The Xmas Edition M2 World Championship Hydeout: The Prelude
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: 24OWLS Video: Pico Pro Pte Ltd
Organised by 24OWLS at 27 Pasir The region’s first multi-genre music
Panjang, this family-friendly, feel-good festival, Hydeout 2021 took on a fully
Photo: Collective Minds live music event brought together virtual experience with a mixed reality
The two-day live performance featured local performers Lorong Boys, platform. Featuring a line-up of global
a strong line-up of local performers Nathan Hartono and Aisyah Aziz, A-listers including Martin Garrix, Rita
including Benjamin Kheng, Charlie in two sessions performed within Ora, and DJ Snake, the event featured
Lim and Sezairi. It was one of the a single day. Photos: Moonton episodic content drops which were
first concerts to resume in 2020, and One of the first e-sports events accessed on a paid subscription basis.
attendance was capped at 500 for to resume since the start of In addition to experiencing weekly
the pilot event, where pre-event testing the pandemic, the M2 World music content, users customised
was mandatory for all attendees. Championship featured 12 teams their own avatars, interacted, played
The concert was organised by AEG competing behind closed doors for a games, and picked up fun facts about
and Collective Minds, and supported prize pool of S$400,000. Broadcasted Singapore. Hydeout recorded over
by Marina Bay Sands as venue partner. globally in over 10 languages, the 75,000 paid users worldwide with
event was watched by over three Indonesia, USA, France, Canada and
million concurrent users. Malaysia as the top markets.

--- PAGE 46 ---

3
8
Chinatown’s Chinese New
PCMA Convening Leaders 2021 ARTWALK Little India 2021 Year (CNY) Celebrations Pongal Festival 2021
Chinatown’s 2021 CNY Celebrations Pongal is an annual Indian
(23 January to 12 March 2021) kicked thanksgiving celebration of a good
off with an opening ceremony with harvest. This year’s hybrid event
live performances at the Kreta Ayer (9 January to 7 February 2021) in
People’s Theatre, and a physical light Little India featured on-ground
up that was also livestreamed to activities such as a street light-up,
audiences at home. Taking a leaf from cattle farm, cultural demonstrations
Mid-Autumn Festival 2020, the event and workshops, Culinary Walk, a
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Video: Singapore Exhibition and Convention Bureau featured virtual programming including treasure hunt, and a Kolam activity
Singapore hosted PCMA (Professional social media activities and themed where 1010 luminous designs earned
Convention Management Association) video content to profile heritage a place in the Singapore Book of
Convening Leaders, a globally brands. Highlights included a virtual Records. The virtual programming
significant conference in the pineapple-tart making workshop, in included the Community Pongal
international MICE calendar. It was partnership with homegrown brand Cooking Competition, Pongal
the first time in its 64-year history A public art festival held in conjunction Kele Pineapple tarts. Kreta Ayer Kondattam and the Mega Pongal
that the event was held outside North with Singapore Art Week, the Community Club, the main organiser Online show, the latter featuring a
America. Singapore was appointed 2021 edition took place online and of the event, also launched a virtual two-day non-stop cultural
the Global Broadcast Centre for the offline over three weekends. Themed 360-degree tour of the signature street entertainment programme organised
event, physically gathering almost In Spite of…, the event showcased lanterns on 5 February, as a safe with global Tamil organisations.
300 local and international attendees, ARTWALK’s first international alternative for the public. The event
with content was broadcasted to collaboration between Indian artist reached a virtual audience of over
nearly 4,000 attendees worldwide. Bhajju Shyam and Singaporean urban 900,000 viewers.
Through digital capabilities such as artist Sam Lo. The seven-storey
holographic technology, Singapore’s mural on the façade of the Broadway
event connected in-person and virtual Hotel in Little India – the tallest of
audiences across continents, its kind in Singapore – fused the
such as having Toronto-based PCMA traditional Indian art form Gond with
President Sherrif Karamat beam into contemporary lines.
the event “live” to participate in a
real-time panel discussion.

--- PAGE 47 ---

3
9
February 2021
Double Happiness Chingay 2021 River Hongbao 2021 Singapore Art Week (SAW) 2021
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: Chinatown Complex Hawker Centre Video: People’s Association Photo: River Hongbao
Organised by Chinatown Complex The theme of the first-ever digital For better crowd management, the
Hawkers’ Association, Double Chingay – Light of Hope – was inaugural River Hongbao was held over
Happiness celebrated both UNESCO’s a heartfelt affirmation that every 11 days at Gardens by the Bay instead
acknowledgement of Singapore’s individual is a spark of light that of the Marina Bay Floating Platform,
hawker scene as an intangible brings hope and warmth to others its usual location in previous years. SAW, the pinnacle of Singapore’s visual
cultural heritage, and our hawkers’ in the community, and that today’s The Singapore Federation of Chinese arts scene, returned for its 9th-edition
resilience during the pandemic. challenges can be overcome together. Clan Associations spotlighted the in a blended format for the very first
Chinatown Complex launched its A series of online events culminated event programming with lantern set time. Its theme of Art Takes Over
own e-commerce platform, which in an hour-long special webcast pieces, themed exhibitions and pre- took on a new meaning as it spanned
generated over 37,000 clicks. Over and telecast on local TV channels, recorded stage performances. Despite both physical and digital platforms
12,000 attendees participated in both Chingay’s website and social media its smaller scale, the event was well with over 100 programmes by more
physical and online programmes channels. Among the highlights received with members of public than 300 artists and curators from
such as food tours, workshops, craft were tourism mascot Merli hosting requesting for it to be extended. Singapore and beyond. In addition to
giveaways, and livestream sessions the event alongside live emcees, an signature events like Light to Night
featuring unique hawker goods. online Chingay Mama Shop featuring Festival 2021, ARTWALK at Little India
merchandise from local brands, and a and S.E.A. Focus 2021, SAW brought
Chinatown Complex’s
Hawker Culture Jingle Challenge. the visual arts out of traditional arts
e-commerce platform
generated spaces into unconventional public
>37,000 spaces and neighbourhoods, reaching
more than 600,000 people.
clicks

--- PAGE 48 ---

4
0
March 2021
Disney 2.0 Partnership
Announcement and Disney+ Launch Dota 2 Singapore Major Geo Connect Asia 2021 Sakura Floral Display
A seasonal floral display held in
Gardens by the Bay’s Flower Dome in
March, the display treated visitors to a
spectacular cherry blossom landscape,
furnished with Japanese torii gates
and red-crowned cranes. This year’s
edition featured the timeless Japanese
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Photo: The Walt Disney Company Video: ONE Esports pop icon, Hello Kitty.
On 24 February 2021, STB and Disney The ONE Esports Dota 2 Singapore The second pilot tradeshow to trial
officially announced the renewal of Major 2021, presented by the the hybrid event prototype developed
their partnership. The announcement Professional Gamers League, saw by the Alliance for Action on Enabling Louis Vuitton Women’s Spring-
kicked off the Singapore launch of 18 top teams battling it out for a Safe and Innovative Visitor Experience, Summer 2021 Spin-Off Show
Disney+, whilst a dazzling projection US$500,000 (S$665,470) prize pool in Geo Connect Asia 2021 featured Louis Vuitton staged its first full-
mapping display took place across the closed-door event held at Fairmont new formats, processes and digital fledged phygital fashion show in
the Marina Bay skyline. Singapore. Fans of the online game enablers that enhanced the safety Singapore on 23 March 2021. For
were able to book a private room or of attendees. his Spring-Summer 2021 collection,
suite at the hotel to catch the action creative director Nicolas Ghesquière
live, and brought home collectibles The usual tradeshow floors were transformed the basement of the
from the event including an exclusive replaced with Geo Suites in which ArtScience Museum by projecting Wim
Secretlab OMEGA chair. ballrooms were converted into Wenders’ iconic movie Wings of Desire
exhibition booths. Each booth onto green screens. The event was
Prize pool
held a single exhibitor to minimise livestreamed to an online audience.
US$500,000
intermingling. There was also a trial
(S$665,470)
for Safe Event – a platform that taps
on geospatial technology to monitor
attendees’ movements via an app and
temperature-tracking wearables, and
allows automated check-in through
facial recognition.

--- PAGE 49 ---

REINVENT
4
1
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
Singapore Tourism Board Marketing Cruise
TripAdvisor The Drum Digital Advertising Marketing Interactive’s Travel Weekly Readers’
Singapore Visitor Centre Marina Bay Sands PR Awards 2021 Choice Awards 2020
@ orchardgateway Best SEO Campaign Edelman Marina Bay Cruise
Travellers’ Choice 2020 PR Awards Overall Champion – Centre Singapore
MARKies Awards 2020 Agency. Best Cruise Port 2020
Singapore Tourism Board Best Event-Led PR Campaign
Most Creative – Social Media for STB’s Singapore
Food Festival (Gold)
MARKies Awards 2021
Singapore Tourism Board x Visa Edelman
Most Effective Use – Best Use of Social Media
Integrated Media (Gold) for SingapoRediscovers –
Online and Social (Silver)
Singapore Tourism Board x Visa
Most Creative – Edelman
COVID-19 Response (Silver) Best Use of Virtual Platforms
for Singapore Food Festival 2020
PR Awards Asia 2021 by PR Week (Silver)
Edelman
Public Sector Category,
for SingapoRediscovers:
Promoting Singapore to
Singaporeans – Earned Domestic
Recovery (Gold)
Edelman
Best Use of Social Media Category,
for SingapoRediscovers with
hyperlocal online content (Bronze)

--- PAGE 50 ---

REINVENT — AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
4
2
Hotels Hospitality
World Luxury Hotels TripAdvisor Forbes Travel Guide 2021 Forbes Travel Guide 2021
Luxury City Hotel 2020: Travellers’ Choice 2020: Marina Bay Sands Marina Bay Sands Singapore
Grand Park Orchard #2 The Fullerton Hotel Four-Star Hotel Four-Star Spa – Banyan Tree Spa
Singapore
Luxury Heritage Hotel 2020: #3 Shangri-La Singapore HRM Asia World Travel Awards 2020
Hotel Fort Canning #4 Capella Singapore Readers’ Choice Awards 2020 Marina Bay Sands Singapore
InterContinental Singapore #5 Sofitel Singapore City Centre Marina Bay Sands Asia’s Leading Casino Resort 2020
The Capitol Kempinski #6 The Ritz-Carlton Best Business Hotel – Silver
Hotel Singapore Millenia Singapore Travel Weekly Asia 2020 Readers’
#7 Four Seasons Hotel Expat Living Choice Awards
Condé Nast Traveler Singapore Readers’ Choice Awards 2021 Resorts World Sentosa
Readers’ Choice Awards – #8 Quincy Hotel Marina Bay Sands Best Integrated Resort
Top10 Hotels in Singapore: #9 Hotel Indigo Best Hotel for a Family Staycation (Asia Pacific)
#1 Raffles Singapore Singapore Katong in Singapore – Finalist
#2 Capella Singapore #10 Mandarin Oriental Singapore 13th Annual TTG
#3 Fullerton Hotel Singapore Condé Nast Traveler’s China Travel Awards 2020
#4 Shangri-La Hotel Singapore TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice 2020 Readers’ Choice Awards 2020 Resorts World Sentosa
#5 Andaz Singapore (Best of the Best Awards) Marina Bay Sands Best Integrated Resort
#6 Fullerton Bay Equarius Hotel Readers’ Choice Awards: (International)
Hotel Singapore Best Service in Singapore, Top10 Hotels in Singapore – #8
#7 Regent Singapore Best Luxury in Singapore
#9 The St. Regis Singapore
#10 The Ritz-Carlton Marina Bay Sands
Millenia Singapore Top 25 Most Saved Hotels
(World) – #1

--- PAGE 51 ---

REINVENT — AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
4
3
Dining
Asia’s 50 Best Restaurant List 2020 RAS Epicurean Star Awards 2020 Marketing Awards 2020 Luxury Lifestyle Awards 2020
#1 Odette Saint Pierre Singapore Tourism Board/ Waku Ghin
#11 Les Amis Most Innovative F&B Brand Mojito Ventures – Top 15 Best Luxury Restaurants
Gin Mare Art of (Single Outlet) Singapore Food Festival 2020 in Singapore
Hospitality Award Gold – Best content creation
#21 Jaan by Kirk Westaway Wok Hey for a virtual event T.Dining Singapore’s Best Restaurants
#42 Corner House Most Innovative F&B Brand Guide 2020/21 by Singapore Tatler
#50 Nouri (Multiple Outlets) Singapore Tourism Board/ table65
Mojito Ventures – Singapore’s Top 20 Restaurants
Asia’s 50 Best Bars List 2020 TungLok Group Singapore Food Festival 2020
#1 Jigger & Pony Most Inspirational F&B Brand Bronze – Best virtual event (B2C) Expat Living Readers’
#5 Atlas (Multiple Outlets) Choice Awards 2021
#6 Native Safe Dining Award Travellers’ Choice 2020 KOMA Singapore
#8 Manhattan (Best of the Best Awards) Best Romantic Dining
Art of Hospitality Award Beng Who Cooks Best Fine Dining Restaurants
#18 Tippling Club Most Inspirational F&B Brand (Singapore): Wine & Dine Singapore’s Top
#22 The Old Man Singapore (Single Outlet) #9 Spago Dining Room Restaurants 2020/2021
Best New Opening by Wolfgang Puck House of Stars, One Star:
#23 D.Bespoke Omoté #10 CUT by Wolfgang Puck CUT by Wolfgang Puck
#25 Gibson Best Take-Out Brand Punjab Grill
#30 28 Hong Kong Street Forbes Travel Guide 2021 Yardbird Southern Table & Bar
#32 Nutmeg & Clove World Gourmet Awards 2020 Five-Star Restaurant:
#46 MO Bar Angus Chow Waku Ghin House of Stars, Two Stars:
No Sleep Club Chef of the Year (Male) KOMA Singapore
One to Watch Four-Star Restaurant: Best New Concept
Melissa Revilla CUT by Wolfgang Puck LAVO Italian Restaurant
World’s 50 Best Bars List 2020 Chef of the Year (Female) Spago Dining Room & Rooftop Bar
#4 Atlas Best Ambience
#9 Jigger & Pony table65
#14 Manhattan
#18 Native

--- PAGE 52 ---

REINVENT — AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
4
4
Attractions Nightlife MICE Singapore Tourism
Building and Construction Authority Expat Living WOW Awards Asia 2020 Analytics Network &
Gardens by the Bay (Bay South) Readers’ Choice Awards 2021 Marina Bay Sands Singapore Tourism Information
Green Mark Award (Platinum) MARQUEE Singapore Experiential Venue Awards: and Services Hub
Best Nightlife – Silver Best Venue for Business Events – Talend
Singapore Business Review Destination Asia Singapore Tourism Board
Gardens by the Bay Talend Data Master Award
SBR National Business Awards – Retail EIC Sustainable Event Standards 2020
Hospitality and Leisure Luxury Lifestyle Awards 2020 Marina Bay Sands Singapore
The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands EIC Sustainable Event Standards
TripAdvisor The Best Luxury Shopping Malls (Gold)
Travellers’ Choice 2020: in Singapore – Top 2
Singapore Flyer World M.I.C.E Awards
Flight Experience Singapore Tatler’s Marina Bay Sands Singapore
National Museum of Singapore Best of Singapore 2021 Asia’s Best MICE Hotel 2020;
Asian Civilisations Museum The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands Singapore’s Best MICE Hotel 2020
Malay Heritage Centre Best Luxury Shopping Experience
Indian Heritage Centre International Congress and
Sands SkyPark Observation Deck Convention Association
Spectra – A Light & Water Show Marina Bay Sands Singapore
Asia-Pacific’s Top Meeting City for
Top 10 Water Parks in Asia: 18 consecutive years
Adventure Cove Waterpark
Union of International Associations
Marina Bay Sands Singapore
Top International Meeting Country
for 2 consecutive years;
Top International Meeting City
for 12 years

--- PAGE 53 ---

RECREATE
Singapore’s mission is to become the world’s
most sustainable urban destination. We are
on track to achieve this vision with innovative
nature-based concepts such as Jewel Changi
Airport and Gardens by the Bay.
KCILC
N
LINKS TO NAVIGATE
O
MARKETING SINGAPORE
TO THE WORLD
BUILDING INDUSTRY
COMPETITIVENESS
ENHANCING DESTINATION
ATTRACTIVENESS
TOWARDS A COVID-
RESILIENT SINGAPORE

--- PAGE 54 ---

RECREATE
4
6
MARKETING SINGAPORE
TO THE WORLD
In 2020, STB engaged key industry Launch of SG Stories STB-LinkedIn
partners in a series of innovative SingapoReimagine International Content Fund Partnership
branding and marketing campaigns Recovery Campaign The SG Stories Content Fund (SGSCF) STB inked a $1 million partnership
to keep Singapore as a top-of-mind
STB introduced the SingapoReimagine was launched in April 2020 at the with LinkedIn to drive business
international travel destination.
campaign to its leisure and MICE height of the COVID-19 pandemic. connections and growth in the B2B
partners at Travel Revive 2020. The With an initial funding pool of space. The partnership propelled
campaign aims to galvanise domestic S$2 million, its aim was to spur the VisitSingapore Business Events
and international trade, and to send tourism enterprises, content creators LinkedIn profile to the most followed
a strong message to consumers that and individuals to craft authentic convention bureau LinkedIn page in
Singapore is reimagining the travel stories around the themes of the world. It achieved a 70% increase
experience to cater to their needs. “Strength, Resilience, Solidarity and in average engagement rates through
Unity”. It attracted a total of 559 creative and engaging content, and
proposals, spanning a variety of derived numerous value adds that
formats such as mini-documentaries, benefitted our local industry such as
narratives, profile features and co-branded activations at key business
animation. Due to the overwhelming events, brand impact analysis and
response, the funding pool was raised insights, and LinkedIn content
to S$2.5 million, and 20 applicants webinars conducted by LinkedIn’s
were awarded. Content Solutions team.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 55 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
4
7
STB’s Partnerships STB Partnership Aviation Partnerships
with VISA and DBS with KrisShop and CAG Border closures prompted STB to
STB’s three-year Memorandum of to rediscover homegrown tourism STB signed a three-year partnership focus our aviation partnerships
Understanding (MOU) with Visa products and experiences. To enable with KrisShop, Singapore Airlines’ with KrisShop, Singapore Airlines
supports local tourism and lifestyle local businesses to be future-ready, flagship retailer, to jointly market and Changi Airport Group (CAG) on
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises STB and DBS piloted a seamless Singapore’s vibrant retail scene, initiatives that maintain mindshare of
(SMEs), boosts spending, and drives and contactless digital payment home-grown brands and Design Singapore in key markets, while driving
domestic and international tourism. experience that uses DBS PayLah! Orchard. STB and KrisShop will explore local spending to sustain tourism
In addition to publishing joint reports in the Bugis precinct. new fulfilment services and channels businesses in Singapore.
on COVID-19’s impact on local tourism to create effortless online-to-offline
and business travel, the partners and offline-to-online retail experiences
launched a co-branded domestic STB-Expedia Partnership and explore integration of KrisShop. Marketing
marketing campaign that brought STB and Expedia, one of the world’s com with STB’s VisitSingapore mobile Partnership Programme
together STB’s SingapoRediscovers leading full-service online travel app to facilitate shopping on-the-go. To help our tourism sector recover,
and Visa’s ‘Where You Shop brands, inked a two-year global STB’s new Marketing Partnership
Matters’ campaigns. marketing partnership in October STB also worked with Changi Airport Programme supported over 300
2020. Its focus is to stimulate the Group’s e-commerce platform, local hotels, attractions, MICE event
STB’s three-year MOU with DBS local tourism sector by supporting iShopChangi, on a domestic campaign organisers and venues, and travel
Bank also sought to boost domestic home- grown businesses and to promote local brands. STB also agents in their international marketing.
spend and complement the strengthen Singapore’s position supported CAG’s efforts to drive This is to maintain their international
SingapoRediscovers campaign, with a as a destination of choice when footfall and spend via its year-end presence and to build a pipeline of
marketing campaign that urged locals international travel resumes. festive event, Changi Festive Village, tourist demand when the market
which includes a dino-themed carnival recovers. The S$20 million, two-year
at Terminal 4, glamping at Jewel and programme also supported several
a first-of-its-kind, Christmas Night outbound travel agents who have
light-up at Changi Jurassic Mile. re-adapted their business model to
STB continues to collaborate with focus on inbound tourists.
Changi Airport to develop Changi
Precinct into a vibrant tourism hub
with more signature events, tours,
and experiences.

--- PAGE 56 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
4
8
AMERICAS
Condé Nast Traveler’s ‘Somebody Feed Phil’ Singapore by Stream
New Standard Partnership Singapore’s vibrant food scene, To engage an audience unable to
STB partnered Condé Nast Traveler, sustainable green initiatives, and travel, STB launched digital tours on
America’s premier travel publication, modern architecture headlined the America’s top-ranking livestreaming
to launch the New Standard editorial fourth season of Netflix’s hit food platform, Twitch. Four virtual tours
initiative. The campaign promotes and travel programme, Somebody Feed took viewers around Singapore in
Singapore as a safe travel destination Phil. The collaboration saw 48 million real time with a taxi driver, and host,
to US and Canadian audiences media impressions, whilst a million Sarah Benjamin. The activation saw
through customised content across social media posts were created by over 3,100 chat messages, with
Condé Nast’s print, digital, video and influencers, travel trade and fans of 344,000 views, and 285,400 unique
social channels. It delivered over host, Phil Rosenthal. viewers from 15 countries.
20 million press impressions and
two million views on custom videos
showcasing Singapore’s diverse
offerings and experiences.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Video: Condé Nast Traveler

--- PAGE 57 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
4
9
EUROPE
E-Learning Trade Platforms Russian, Polish and Maintaining close ties Connecting with Culture Shapers
STB launched three e-learning French influencers promote with Italian travel trade with ArtNight Live
platforms in local languages for Instagram filters STB worked with industry partners, Singaporean artist Paul Wang
in-market trade agents in Russia, To help European passion tribes tour operators, publications, and headlined ArtNight Live, a special
Ukraine and Poland, whilst a experience Singapore remotely, STB Singapore Airlines to produce collaboration between STB and
Dutch version was created for the worked with key European influencers 15 webinars and training sessions German creative company, ArtNight,
Netherlands and Belgium. Over to develop Instagram filters in Russian, to reach 2,500 Italian travel agents. which reached over 90,000 social
13,500 agents signed up. Through Polish and French. The Russian and Engagement was high on two media users. Rolled out in Germany,
27 webinars in 10 cities across Polish versions alone reached an live Facebook events which involved Austria, Switzerland, the United
Eastern Europe, STB also worked with audience of 4.2 million. an Italian-speaking tour guide Kingdom, and the Netherlands, the
Singaporean destination management from Singapore. event included online workshops on
companies, attractions, hotels and urban sketching and water-colouring,
airlines to update 1,500 in-market showcasing Singapore’s diverse
agents on Singapore’s MICE and cultures and modern architecture.
leisure offerings.
13,500
in-market
trade agents
signed up
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 58 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
— EUROPE
— EUROPE 5
0
Engaging TikTok’s Teh Tarik
Key Opinion Leaders Hashtag Challenge
To promote STB’s passion tribes, To engage the early careers segment
we collaborated with influencers in in France, STB challenged TikTok
the United Kingdom and Captivate, users to recreate the pouring of
a collective of lifestyle bloggers and teh tarik in the most creative way.
influencers, to share their personal Six lifestyle influencers with a
experiences of Singapore and promote combined following of 125 million
masterclasses to their followers. were recruited, and the event
The campaign reached 2.4 million generated over 290 million views.
and generated over 13,600 social
media engagements.
STB also teamed up with Germany’s
largest online travel magazine,
Travelbook, to maintain brand
awareness among German travellers.
The campaign worked with social
media influencers, Anna Heupel, and
Daniel and Jessica Krawczyk.

--- PAGE 59 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
1
GREATER CHINA
Three-year MOU with Eleanor Lee curates Trip.com Group’s three-year
iQIYI International Singapore four-episode podcasts MOU Kicks into Gear
Leveraging Chinese consumers’ Working with Elle China, Singaporean STB expanded its strong partnership
demand for fresh content and online actress and singer Eleanor Lee shared with Trip.com Group in mainland China
programming, STB signed a three-year personal stories of her youth in to include Hong Kong, South Korea
MOU with iQIYI. In the first year of Singapore. The four-episode podcast and Thailand. The first two live-stream
collaboration, Singapore was the only programme saw over 256,000 listeners sessions of this year’s partnership
destination featured in the popular tuning in, which generated 6.8 million generated over five million views and
reality show Youth with You 3. impressions and 94,000 engagements. S$3 million in sales.

--- PAGE 60 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
2
Xiaomi Campaign MICE Webinars Reaching out to post-90s
The pan-China co-branding STB conducted a series of five Chinese audience with Tencent
campaign included Singapore- thematic webinars to introduce MICE A customised Peranakan-dressed 1.4 mil
branded delivery boxes filled with resources to over 1,000 attendees. avatar on Tencent QQ, face-swapping, participants
handmade toys of Singapore The interactive digital experience and virtual travel around Singapore
as of end-December 2020
icons, as well as five Singaporean included virtual tours of key locations through selfies against different
recipes for Xiaomi’s smart home in Singapore. locations on the Tencent Pitu game
mobile app. The campaign attracted engaged a younger Chinese audience.
43 million impressions. STB also launched an Augmented
Reality (AR) video campaign featuring
3D animated videos of Singapore
that could be viewed using the QQ
AR camera function. The videos
further directed users to the campaign
page that reinforced Singapore as a
safe destination.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEOS

--- PAGE 61 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
3
Baking classes for Pandan Kaya Chengdu TV launches ‘Sweet ‘A Singapore Feast in Taiwan’
Cake in 10 Chinese cities Memories from Singapore’ offers 28,000 Singapore-
Targeting the Early Careers segment, Part of the Chengdu Panda inspired menus
STB worked with ABC Cooking International Food & Culture Carnival, To coincide with National Day, STB
Studio to offer baking classes of the the collaboration showcased partnered 11 F&B brands – including
iconic Singaporean cake in 22 stores Singapore’s diverse kueh culture, and Hawker Chan, Putien and Toast Box
Approx.
across China. included a live streaming session that – to profile Singaporean food, culture
S$726,000
attracted 400,000 viewers and over and destination offerings.
earned Influencer
one million engagements.
Media Value
Over
28,000
Singapore-inspired menus

--- PAGE 62 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
4
INDIA, MIDDLE EAST AND SOUTH ASIA
Celebrating culture
and the creative arts
STB and St+art India Foundation In another collaboration, STB Singaporean rap artiste Yung Raja,
commissioned a seven-storey- teamed up with National Geographic and Indian-American rapper Raja
high mural by artists, Bhajju Shyam India on Reimagine Passion in Kumari entertained over 60,000 virtual
from India and Singapore’s Sam Lo. Singapore, a series of short videos attendees when they headlined the
Painted on the façade of Little India’s on Singapore’s arts, photography, Bacardi NH7 Weekender music festival
Broadway Hotel, Dancing in Unison culinary scene, and urban greenery in India. STB also collaborated with
is one of Singapore’s tallest murals that attracted almost four million online ticketing platform BookMyShow
of its kind. impressions in the first month. on a web series celebrating creativity
in filmmaking, music, food, and
comedy between artistes from India
and Singapore. The series garnered
more than 1.37 million views.

--- PAGE 63 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
5
Sharing our passion for food ‘Discover Now, Travel Later’ Virtual MICE Events Reaching families through
STB India continued its yearly A microsite on travel search engine STB organised Singapore M&I the Windmill Festival
partnership with food delivery app Tripoto, Discover Now, was launched Connects: What Lies Ahead for the STB partnered the Windmill Festival,
Zomato for Zomaland@Home, a to tap into India’s fast-growing travel MICE Industry, where Singaporean and India’s biggest virtual festival for
digital festival featuring a livestream community, and reached over Indian industry leaders discussed the families and children, featuring content
of Singaporean artistes like mixologist eight million users. impact of COVID-19. STB and Indian from attractions like Gardens by the
Vijay Mudaliar and food writer Sarah travel agent SOTC Travel also hosted Bay and Madame Tussauds. The event
Huang Benjamin, which attracted Growing MICE Connections, Achieving generated 5.6 million impressions and
over six million views. Popular Indian Together, with virtual panels featuring a reach of over two million.
grocery chain Nature’s Basket also leaders from various sectors; whilst
partnered with STB and Singapore Singaporean MICE stakeholders
food brands as part of the Singapore participated in the International
Food Festival 2020, and achieved a MICE Showcase 2.0, a virtual summit
social media reach of 1.8 million. attended by over 1,000 delegates from
52 countries.

--- PAGE 64 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
6
Driving trade engagement Key Partnerships Other Media and
STB launched the #UnitedWeStand in the UAE PR in the Middle East
initiative to engage the trade Among the key initiatives in the Our PR efforts also featured social
community in India through regular UAE was an eight-week campaign media campaigns such as #SGClean
updates on Destination Singapore. with Wego Middle East, which targeted Getaways, which generated a reach
To promote its Passion Made Possible consumers from the UAE, Saudi of 1.75 million on Instagram and
brand and passion tribes, STB Arabia and Kuwait. Another was the 1.2 million on Facebook. Articles in
held the virtual Singapore-Passion Dubai National Air Travel Agency leading publications such as FACT
Escapade, featuring Singapore-themed (dnata) partnership which included and Travel Mission also strengthened
games. We also engaged members SingapoReimagine media content and destination awareness and reinforced
of India’s travel community through enrolled 75 dnata holiday consultants SG Clean messages.
ReCONNECT, a virtual B2B tradeshow. into the Singapore Specialists
Programme. An online survey
In addition, STB partnered TravTalk conducted with Cleartrip UAE showed
Middle East on a virtual roadshow that Singapore was among the
which received over 800 registered top five bucket list destinations of
buyers, worked with 12 Singaporean UAE travellers.
partners to organise a quiz for trade
partners, and took part in the Gulf
Travel Show to cultivate the travel
trade in the pandemic recovery
phase. The launch of the Singapore
Specialists Program GCC, which
highlights Singapore’s accommodation
and dining as a Muslim-friendly
destination, was well-received.

--- PAGE 65 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
7
JAPAN SOUTH KOREA
Debut of Ticketed Virtual Tours Singapore-themed MOU with global hitmaker,
STB teamed up with its Japanese Flight to Nowhere Studio Dragon Corporation
counterpart, JTB Singapore, to An enthusiastic group of All in-flight A new three-year collaboration pairs
develop a series of ticketed virtual 141 Japanese tourists flew on seats STB with the South Korean drama
tours of Singapore spots hosted Japan Airlines from Narita on an sold out production company to promote
by popular YouTuber, Ghib Ojisan. all-Singapore-themed flight that Singapore as a destination of choice
Souvenir packs were sent to over included photos, cuisine, and for South Koreans and K-drama fans
S$270,000
400 participants in Japan for an destination content on the in-flight around the world.
earned Influencer
immersive online experience. entertainment system. The flight-to-
Media Value
nowhere was sold-out and garnered
positive media coverage in Japan.
Over 400
participants

--- PAGE 66 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
8
Summer with Singapore Reimagine Singapore Travel ‘SingaporRE:Connect with Oh Ji
(SUMMSING) Food Festival with Korean Tourist Guides Young’ targets Korean expats YouTube
and Facebook
As part of STB’s series of micro- Virtual media tours organised by Featuring a South Korean living in
Over 3.27 mil
campaigns to drum up destination STB and Korean tourist guides took Singapore, the micro-campaign of
awareness, five Singaporean South Korean consumers on an four videos relayed information about impressions
F&B brands based in South Korea engaging journey around Singapore. safety measures taken by Singapore (+59%)
celebrated the 45th anniversary of The four videos garnered 1.3 million and tourism players to ensure the
Over 1 mil
diplomatic relations between the YouTube views, and nearly 100,000 safety of travellers. Over 3.2 million
views
countries at Seoul’s Jumbo Seafood Facebook views. The series is also impressions and one million views on
Restaurant. Social media posts available on Singapore Airlines’ YouTube and Facebook were achieved. (+58%)
on Facebook and Instagram in-flight entertainment.
surrounding the festival hit over
six million impressions.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 67 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
5
9
OCEANIA
Aussie and Kiwi Expats joined
Fiona Xie in Showcasing Singapore
The vivacious Singaporean actress,
210,000
together with Aussie and Kiwi
views
expatriates living here, showcased
Singapore in three fun videos: on STB’s Oceania
Facebook page
Singapore’s Best Kept Secrets;
Singapore – the Garden City; and
3.9mil
7 Things You Didn’t Know about
reach
Singapore’s Food Scene. Among
the hidden gems featured were the
Peranakan Tiles Gallery and kayaking
in MacRitchie Reservoir. The series
achieved a reach of 3.9 million through
seven media articles, and nearly
210,000 views on STB’s Oceania
Facebook page.

--- PAGE 68 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
6
0
SOUTHEAST ASIA INDONESIA
TravelThrowBack Reaches STB’s Largest Webinar in 600 Industry Leaders attend ‘Charting Our Path to
21 million Social Media Users Indonesia Attracts Nearly Virtual MICE Forum Cruise Recovery’
To inspire dreams of travelling again 1,000 Travel Trade Members STB collaborated with leading MICE STB partnered Travel Weekly Asia
when borders re-open, landlocked STB launched its biggest webinar publication Venue Magz to provide for its third edition of CruiseWorld
travellers were encouraged to share in Indonesia to date – Towards A updates on the management of Indonesia, a virtual event attended
their photos of Singapore and New Tourism Landscape: Updates COVID-19 in Singapore, and discuss by over 300 Indonesian travel agents.
Southeast Asia on social media. from Singapore Tourism Industry how the industry leveraged technology Indonesia was one of the top three
– which contained updates on to enhance the delegate experience. markets for cruising out of Singapore,
the management and impact of and the event provided insights
COVID-19 on Singapore’s tourism. by industry leaders on the future
Joining the webinar were five tourism of cruising.
stakeholders: Gardens by the Bay,
Wildlife Reserves Singapore,
Sentosa Development Corporation
(SDC), Resorts World Sentosa, and
One Faber Group.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 69 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
6
1
#KangenSingapura
(#MissingSingapore)
STB’s year-long PR and marketing
programme included two six-episode
series with celebrity chef Martin
Natadipraja and Singapore-based
Indonesian artist Marissa Nasution;
Virtual Passion Tours targeting
the Explorer and Foodie tribes;
and a TikTok campaign with eight
influencers which saw over 27,000
user- generated videos that hit
1.4 million views.

--- PAGE 70 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
6
2
MALAYSIA PHILIPPINES THAILAND
The Weekend Show Season 1 Greater Manila webinar series Message to Thailand: Singapore Food Festival 2020
STB started a digital series called STB leveraged the popularity of ‘Singapore Misses You’ with March Chutavuth
The Weekend Show on its Malaysian webinars to reach out to new travel Enhanced features on Boxes of food souvenirs were
Facebook account to keep the Early agents, including those located in the @VisitSingaporeTH, STB’s delivered to the popular Thai
Careers segment informed of the Greater Manila area, such as Quezon Line messenger’s account, and a influencer who also attended a virtual
latest developments and events in City, Rizal, Cavite, Laguna, Pampanga, Singapore Misses You video drew cooking class. The festival’s various
Singapore. The web series featured Bulacan and Nueva Ecija. The webinar strong emotional connections from activities – including collaborations
masterclasses and activities with series reached more than 300 new Thai viewers, attracting 3.4 million with Jumbo Seafood and Song Fa
partners such as Atlas Bar, Singapore agent contacts. views as familiar Singaporean icons Bak Kut Teh based in Thailand –
Zoo, Yeo Mama Batik, KEK Seafood and landmarks were recreated in the generated a reach of over 400,000,
Restaurant, How Drama, and Charlie daily lives of Thai characters. and 70,000 engagements.
Lim. In 15 months, the web series STB Philippines launches
garnered about 10 million views with Zi Char web series 3.4 mil
1.5 million reach. STB launched a seven-episode Zi Char views
web series in Mar 2021, featuring
Singaporean chef Bjorn Shen showing
Filipino actor-restaurateur Marvin
Agustin how to re-create classic
Zi Char dishes at home. Marvin then
reimagined these popular dishes with
Filipino flavours using ingredients
found in the Philippines. The first three
episodes achieved 7.5 million views
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
across YouTube and Facebook.

--- PAGE 71 ---

RECREATE — MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD
6
3
VIETNAM
PR Efforts in Vietnam to build
Advocacy and Confidence
STB collaborated with tier-one leisure
and MICE business titles in Vietnam
to highlight Singapore’s positive
management of the pandemic.
The effort generated over 7,000
articles in Vietnam and contributed
to the higher level of confidence
among the Vietnamese for future
travel to Singapore.
Vietnamese Living
In Singapore
A series of videos featuring
Vietnamese expats and celebrity
Bang Lang was created to inspire the
Vietnamese market to reimagine and
discover Singapore. Conveying the
leisure experiences in Singapore in an
authentic and relatable way, the four
videos achieved 5.59 million views,
a unique reach of 11.5 million, and
17.7 million impressions.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 72 ---

RECREATE
6
4
BUILDING INDUSTRY
COMPETITIVENESS
In a year defined by COVID-19, SingapoRediscovers Campaign Skills Upgrading and
STB developed a number of initiatives and SingapoRediscovers Vouchers Manpower Transformation
to raise capabilities and sustain the In July 2020, STB teamed up As part of the co-ordinated tripartite
competitiveness of the tourism sector,
with industry partners to launch response to COVID-19, SHA and
whilst working with stakeholders and
the SingapoRediscovers campaign FDAWU, through STB’s facilitation,
other government agencies to create
to support lifestyle and tourism signed an MOU on 21 February 2020
innovative recovery programmes.
businesses by encouraging locals to to commit to working together to save
explore different sides of Singapore. jobs, build confidence, and deepen
capabilities of employees to prepare
The campaign has been supported by for recovery and growth. Training
the launch of the SingapoRediscovers grants such as SkillsFuture Singapore’s
Vouchers, STB’s first fully-digital Enhanced Training Support Package
voucher scheme that gives every citizen (ETSP), and STB’s Training Industry
$100 to spend on tourism experiences. Professionals in Tourism (TIP-IT)
were enhanced with increased funding
S$320 million was set aside for the for course fees and absentee payroll
project, which featured physical which saw over 56,000 training
locations around Singapore for those places being taken up. Together with
who need more help to redeem Singapore Hotel Association and
vouchers. The industry also responded, Workforce Singapore, Job Redesign
by developing new and innovative (JR) Reskilling/Redeployment
experiences catered for locals. programmes were launched to
support companies that are
As of 1 September 2021, about undergoing business transformation,
1.2 million adult Singapore for their workers to take on new or
citizens have used their vouchers at redesigned job roles, and continue
least once, with close to 1.5 million to have meaningful and sustainable
transactions made. hotel careers.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 73 ---

RECREATE — BUILDING INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
6
5
Accelerating Hotel Hotel Career Campaign
Industry’s Transformation STB’s Hotel Career Campaign focused
STB’s new Lighthouse Transformation in experience for guests. Over 30 on how the hotel industry adapted and
Roadmap helped hotels – such as hotels have transitioned, or will be remained resilient during a difficult
Far East Hospitality, Pan Pacific transitioning, towards EVA by the period. To create more positive, long-
Hotel Group, Amara Hotels & Resorts, end of 2021. Other projects included term perceptions towards careers in
Grand Hyatt and Shangri-La Hotels using artificial intelligence to handle the hospitality industry, the campaign
& Resorts – develop initiatives for high-volume, repeatable tasks introduced stories that highlighted
holistic transformation. This would across the reservation, revenue the tenacity of hotel staff, and how
ensure that the industry remained and front office teams. they pivoted and leveraged the crisis
competitive and better equipped to to upskill, innovate, and prepare for
achieve sustainable growth. In 2020, hotels innovated with hybrid recovery. More than 70 campaign
experiences such as workcations, assets were produced to raise
Meanwhile, the Business launched new and interesting stay awareness of the hoteliers’ efforts
Improvement Fund supported over packages through partnerships with to support the nation’s fight against
60 hotel projects that redesigned the lifestyle companies, and arts and COVID-19. Post-campaign research
guest experience. One such solution culture organisations, and encouraged showed that respondents who had
was the E-Visitor Authentication locals to explore the precincts around seen the campaign assets were
(EVA) system, which enables faster them through neighbourhood tours 72% more likely to have an improved
verification of guests’ stay validity and with local businesses. perception of the hotel industry.
facilitates a seamless check-

--- PAGE 74 ---

RECREATE — BUILDING INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
6
6
Safe Cruising Industry Tech Transformation – Strengthening Singapore
Singapore was one of the first few COVID Guide and Open Call International Relations Tourism Accelerator
ports in the world to resume cruising for Solutions During the year, Singapore played a To address the shift in guest
safely with Genting Cruise Lines’ To help the tourism sector adapt key role in strengthening strategic expectations and to ensure clean and
World Dream, and Royal Caribbean to the new normal, STB launched international relations for the regional safe spaces, hotels participated in
International’s Quantum of the Seas. a comprehensive industry guide that tourism industry. It was appointed the Singapore Tourism Accelerator
STB established the world’s first deep-dived into five key opportunity Chair of the ASEAN Tourism Marketing to crowdsource solutions. The
CruiseSafe certification, which has areas in technology: contactless Partnership Working Group that Accelerator is an equity-free four-
allowed more than 220,000 Singapore experiences, virtual experiences, promotes South-East Asia as a single month-long programme for the world’s
residents, as of August 2021, to seek real-time monitoring and crowd tourism destination, starting with the most promising tech start-ups or pre-
escapades onboard “sea- cations”. management, safe workplaces, ASEAN Tourism Marketing Strategy for scaleups that can power the travel and
The successful launch of cruising and cleanliness and hygiene. 2021 to 2025. Concurrently, Singapore tourism sector. Organised by STB and
made Singapore the global proof of An Open Call for Solutions which is also the Vice-Chair of the ASEAN its corporate innovation partner, Ravel
concept, and a model to emulate as culminated in a two-day digital Tourism Competitive Committee Innovation, the programme recruited
sailings restart all over the world. marketplace, made over 900 and Lead ASEAN Country Coordinator 18 start-ups and ran over 20 pilots
introductions between industry for Cruise Tourism in South-East Asia. with industry partners.
members and tech solution providers. At the G20 Saudi Arabia Meetings,
Singapore and other nations agreed
on a coordinated set of tourism
actions in response to COVID-19.
STB was also involved in Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC)
Tourism Working Meetings which
deliberated on a strategic plan to
enhance inter-agency collaboration,
alongside collective APEC strategies
to overcome the impact of COVID-19.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 75 ---

RECREATE — BUILDING INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
6
7
Launch of Tourism Data Partnerships – Data Analytics Shift
Transformation Index Data Transformation Programme Programme (DASH)
A pilot of the Tourism Transformation Created under the Tcube – a hybrid conditions for future data-centric DASH helped local tourism
Index (TXI) was launched in June 2020 innovation space that brings collaborations, which have stakeholders build data capabilities
to guide the tourism sector through a STB’s digital initiatives, resources historically been difficult due to to improve business performance
holistic approach for transformation. and thought leadership content confidentiality issues. in a structured and sustainable
The Index includes a self-assessment onto a single platform to support manner. Businesses are trained in
tool, a report containing the diagnosis tourism stakeholders on a digital At the enterprise level, the programme digital transformation and basic data
of the current state of transformation, transformation journey – helped tourism companies upskill their analytics skills. They are then guided
and recommendations to relevant this programme enabled the data analytics capabilities, or adopt by STB-appointed industry-mentors
programmes. By the end of 2020, over co-creation of industry-use cases data analytics. The data harvested in planning and implementing data
100 tourism companies participated through data sharing, and adopted from the programme was incorporated projects within their companies.
in, and benefited from, using the Index. data analytics to accelerate into a Data Transformation Toolkit to
business recovery and growth. further enhance the data analytics The programme allowed companies to
STB also published Beyond COVID-19 transformation journey for the industry. develop realistic and achievable data
– Tourism Transformed, a White At the industry level, it fostered project plans based on their ambitions,
Paper that helps stakeholders better data analytics cooperation between the current state of their data maturity,
understand how they can tap on the industry associations and their and available resources.
Index to transform their businesses. members, while creating ideal
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 76 ---

RECREATE — BUILDING INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
6
8
Tourism Data STB Data College Launch of Singapore Tourism Visitor Experience Technology –
Leadership Conference STB Data College delivered free data Analytics Network Tourism Information and
Organised by STB in March 2021, analytics and e-Learning content A data analytics platform, Singapore Services Hub (TIH)
the online conference brought together for tourism sector stakeholders in a Tourism Analytics Network was TIH is a one-stop digital resource hub
over 200 industry members to share convenient and efficient manner. launched to help the tourism industry that helps businesses save time, effort
best practices in harnessing tourism The initiative is continually updated to derive actionable insights about and money with up-to-date content
data to make decisions, innovate, showcase success stories, and inspire Singapore’s visitors by allowing on Singapore’s tourism offerings and
and grow their business. companies to leverage data analytics them to view and analyse tourism- travel software services. To support
to address gaps in their business. related data aggregated from STB tourism recovery efforts, a new Deals
and the industry. The platform also category was introduced in TIH to
allowed tourism stakeholders to enable businesses to reach more
securely contribute data such as hotel customers. These deals were featured
performance, and to digitally access on the Visit Singapore Travel Guide app
the Tourism Transformation Index. and the VisitSingapore portal as part
of the SingapoRediscovers marketing
campaign. To date, TIH features
over 1,200 deals contributed by over
200 businesses.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Foundational modules are available
for registration now!

--- PAGE 77 ---

RECREATE — BUILDING INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
6
9
Technology Exploration – Business Transformation, ‘Visit Singapore Pass’ Pilot
Augmented Reality (AR) and Capability Development STB piloted the Visit Singapore Pass
Strategy and Partnership of Travel Agents on the Visit Singapore Travel Guide
AR initiatives were designed to An initiative under the Tourism App. Working with partners such
encourage the tourism sector to use Recovery Action Committee (TRAC) as the National Heritage Board and
AR to enhance visitor experiences. on Capability Development, a new Visionairs, the one-year pilot featured
To help interested stakeholders Travel Agent Capability Development a single digital pass that provided
understand the technology, workshops Framework was developed and visitors with seamless access to
were held, alongside a showcase launched to provide an individualised curated experiences across Singapore.
which highlighted AR prototypes, training framework. The framework Using a universal ticketing standard,
and different scenarios in which identifies immediate skills gaps to it eliminated the need for physical
the technology could be adopted. raise capabilities of travel agents tickets, providing a contactless
during the pandemic, and gives a more experience, and minimising waiting
holistic approach towards capability time at gated venues.
development. A pilot was also
launched with four polytechnics to
develop customised programmes with
applied learning modules which saw
over 700 industry participants trained
across 18 courses.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO

--- PAGE 78 ---

RECREATE — BUILDING INDUSTRY COMPETITIVENESS
7
0
RE:Think Program Reducing Licensing Costs for Digitalisation of Tourist Bursary Scheme
As part of the ongoing work to get Travel Agents and Tourist Guides Guide Licence, and for Tourist Guides
travel agents to rethink their business To ease the financial burden on travel Streamlining of Tourist Guides STB launched a tourist guide
models, STB launched RE:Think. agents and tourist guides and to assist Licence Renewal Process Bursary Award to encourage tourist
The programme comprises a with their cashflow for FY20/21, STB In a move to streamline processes guides to learn new languages which
series of online talks and small- extended the waiver of travel agents for our tourist guides and to further would help build a stable of guides
group workshops to inspire licence renewal fees; and reduced, support the move towards digital proficient in more foreign languages
and support travel agents in their by 90%, the minimum financial transformation, STB launched a digital to service more visitors.
transformation journey. requirements. To enable further cost tourist guide licence to complement
savings, travel agents could submit the existing physical format. The A total number of 39 tourist guides
Despite resource constraints during auditor-certified accounts in lieu of digital licence has also simplified the applied for the bursary to acquire
the pandemic, travel agents continued audited statement of accounts for overall licence renewal process. language skills in German, French,
to undertake new projects to drive two financial years. For tourist guides, Japanese, Korean and Spanish.
new revenue streams and increase tourist guide licence fees, licence-
Bursary scheme
productivity. A total of 75 projects related fees (except for replacement
39 tourist
were supported by the Business of lost licences) and Multi-Language
guides
Improvement Fund, including 53 Proficiency Test fee waivers were
Productivity Solutions Grants (PSG). extended till 31 December 2021. applied
A new PSG support was offered to
travel agents and tour operators
to defray the cost of adopting
tour whisperer systems to ensure
the delivery of tours to visitors in
a safe manner.
Business
Improvement Fund
75 projects
supported

--- PAGE 79 ---

RECREATE
7
1
ENHANCING DESTINATION
ATTRACTIVENESS
Despite COVID-19 restrictions, New Lifestyle Experiences
tourism businesses continued to As Singaporeans rediscovered their At the same time, existing attractions
introduce new concepts to bring the home country, they were introduced rejuvenated their experiences. NERF
visitor experience to new heights.
to new and innovative concepts Action Xperience (NAX) revamped
Many pivoted by reimagining their
by tourism businesses. Virtual their Challenge Zone to attract budding
events, products and experiences,
experiences were one of the adventure seekers. Raffles Singapore
and leveraging technology to explore
year’s highlights, such as Wildlife introduced the Reflections at Raffles
virtual or hybrid formats.
Reserves Singapore’s Hello from staycation in conjunction with
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
the Wild Side, where visitors Video: Madame Tussauds Singapore its 133rd birthday. Hotel guests
virtually enjoyed customised wildlife Village Hotel Bugis also introduced an could enjoy a specially curated trishaw
interactions with animals and their interactive precinct tour for guests to ride around the neighbourhood,
care team. navigate Singapore with augmented visiting locations mentioned in A Life
reality wayfinding. Intertwined: Reminiscences of an
Accidental Raffles Historian, written
New attractions also opened. by the hotel’s resident historian.
For instance, the Singapore Flyer
unveiled the Time Capsule, offering
a multi-sensory exploration of
Singapore’s history, heritage, culture
and landscape.
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Video: Wildlife Reserves Singapore
Madame Tussauds Singapore
launched a digital version of its
Images of Singapore LIVE! experience,
bringing participants on a time-
travelling adventure to discover the
colourful story of Singapore through
Zoom and quiz platform Kahoot. Photos: Straco Leisure Pte Ltd Photo: NAX Singapore Pte Ltd

--- PAGE 80 ---

RECREATE — ENHANCING DESTINATION ATTRACTIVENESS
7
2
Bringing the staycation experience up and brands. This presented an Safe events the annual cultural celebrations of
a notch, River Safari introduced a one- opportunity to drive support for local Lifestyle events took on new Deepavali, Hari Raya and Chinese
of-a-kind glamping experience in the lifestyle brands in the packaged F&B, formats to ensure safe distancing New Year introduced multiple online
wild where guests enjoyed day-time homeware and décor, beauty and while providing an engaging formats that engaged a large
interactions with animals, and stayed wellness, and fashion and accessories visitor experience. virtual audience, both in Singapore
overnight in the company of manatees sectors. Made with Passion, a national and abroad.
in the Amazon Flooded Forest. Also initiative by the Singapore Brand For the first time in 27 years, the
adding to the staycation list was the Office, STB and Enterprise Singapore, Singapore Food Festival transformed With a hybrid format, our event
new Dusit Thani Laguna Singapore, launched its first phase, celebrating to a virtual festival, reaching organisers were able to blend safety
a wellness-focused urban resort that 47 local brands. Similarly, new retail over 500,000 local and overseas and technology, allowing these events
opened within the grounds of Laguna concept Food Folks @ Lau Pa Sat viewers. The festival also provided to reach a wider global audience
National Golf & Resort Club. opened to showcase over 100 local a platform for businesses to form without compromising on the physical
food and souvenir brands – both new partnerships and test-bed ideas, event experience.
The launch of the SingapoRediscovers established and emerging – across such as live masterclasses, new food
campaign helped raise domestic different product segments. products, and virtual food tours. Thanks to virtual and augmented
awareness of homegrown experiences reality (AR), Standard Chartered
Singapore Marathon 2020
successfully took on its first-ever
hybrid race format, in which over
124,000 participants from around the
globe competed in the race virtually
against fellow runners in real-time.
Christmas on a Great Street 2020
returned with virtual components
which allowed continued engagement
with an overseas audience. Specially
dedicated to Singapore’s frontline
health workers, the 2020 Orchard
Road Christmas event attracted over
210,000 viewers to its virtual site
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
over the course of the event. Likewise, Video: The IRONMAN Group

--- PAGE 81 ---

RECREATE — ENHANCING DESTINATION ATTRACTIVENESS
7
3
With AR and a virtual event format, for hybrid events and workforce Many other business events converted Launch of Safe
Business Events
Hydeout: The Prelude, the region’s first capability development. to hybrid formats for the first time,
Framework
multi-genre music festival, allowed such as BestCities Summit 2020
7,000
music lovers across the globe to STB also launched the Safe Business which hosted a broadcast from the
attendees
experience exhilarating performances Events Framework in July 2020, with Marina Bay Sands’ Hybrid Broadcast
by top artists in the comfort of their guidelines for infection control, crowd Studio, and the Milken Institute Asia
Asia Pacific
own homes. density, safe and clean environment, Summit 2020. In January 2021,
MedTech Virtual
and emergency preparedness. Singapore hosted the Professional Forum 2020
Between the launch of the Framework Convention Management Association 1,450
in July 2020 and March 2021, Convening Leaders 2021 conference, virtual
nearly 60 events hosting over 7,000 its first foray outside of North America attendees
attendees were held in Singapore. in its 64-year history – a significant
MICE event which saw almost
Among the first events to successfully 300 people on-site, and which
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Video: Hydeout test the Framework was the Asia was broadcasted to nearly 4,000
Fans of mobile game Mobile Legends Pacific MedTech Virtual Forum 2020, attendees worldwide.
were also able to support their teams which attracted around 50 in-person
in the Mobile Legends Bang Bang: attendees and a record 1,450 Geo Connect Asia 2021, the second
M2 World Championship, one of virtual attendees. pilot tradeshow to trial the hybrid
the first e-sports events to resume event prototype, featured new formats,
in Singapore. processes and digital enablers
including tapping on geospatial
Business events were hit hard during technology to monitor attendees’
the pandemic, but the industry stayed movements via an app.
strong and positive by developing new
protocols and creative solutions. The
Singapore Association of Convention CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Video: APACMed
& Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers
(SACEOS), with the support of STB The hybrid format of Singapore
and Enterprise Singapore, developed International Energy Week 2020 was
the Event Industry Resilience also well received, as was TravelRevive
Roadmap to share best practices on 2020, the first pilot tradeshow to trial
CLICK TO WATCH VIDEO
Video: Montgomery Asia Team
Safe Management Measures, tips the hybrid tradeshow prototype.

--- PAGE 82 ---

RECREATE
7
4
TOWARDS A
COVID-RESILIENT SINGAPORE
Supporting the National Effort
Despite facing the biggest challenge with Safe Management Measures. In Singapore’s hour of need, other commitment and
to tourism in our history, STB and our STB also formed a team to advise tourism stakeholders stepped up. partnership between the
industry partners came together to set over 5,000 businesses on the For over nine months, Singapore Expo public and private sectors.
new standards and make important updated regulations at each stage of was used to house COVID-19 patients
contributions to the national fight Singapore’s reopening. when local infections were high and The F1 Pit Building was used to
against COVID-19. healthcare facilities were stretched. support the national effort, too. Led
Singapore’s hotels played a key role, by the Health Promotion Board and
One of the first initiatives was too, by offering rooms for various Sats-Creuers Cruise Services Pte Ltd supported by STB, the building was
SG Clean – a new national effort to national and business requirements. and Genting Cruise Lines also did their used as a Regional Screening Centre
raise standards of cleaning, hygiene These included serving as isolation part. In April 2020, they supported from June 2020 to May 2021 for the
and sanitation across all public-facing facilities (e.g. Government Quarantine efforts to manage the outbreak rostered routine testing of workers in
establishments. STB worked with over Facilities, Stay-Home Notice Dedicated in migrant worker dormitories by the construction, marine and process
1,400 tourism establishments to join Facilities), and housing foreign workers providing temporary accommodation engineering sectors. About 6,000 tests
the programme, which was launched affected by border restrictions. for recovered migrant workers on board a day were carried out at the building,
in February 2020. As of August 2021, STB worked closely with various the Superstar Gemini and Superstar to reduce the risk of transmission
more than 31,000 premises across government agencies to facilitate the Aquarius, which were berthed at the among workers, and in our community.
Singapore have undergone audits and Stay-Home Notice (SHN) operations Marina Bay Cruise Centre Singapore.
have been certified SG Clean. at dedicated SHN facilities. This This freed up space at community
extensive operation has provided facilities for those requiring urgent
Over 200 tourist guides also stepped accommodation for over 300,000 on medical attention. The ships welcomed
up as Safe Distancing Ambassadors, SHN, as of July 2021. SHN Dedicated 8,200 migrant workers over five
capitalising on their people and Facilities continue to abide by strict months from April to September
language skills to conduct checks infection prevention and control 2020, with a full suite of medical,
at tourism precincts such as Little guidelines issued by the Ministry meals, security and welfare services.
India, Chinatown and Orchard, as of Health with no clusters observed This unprecedented operation was a
well as hotels and other tourism to date. successful one, thanks to the
establishments to urge compliance

--- PAGE 83 ---

RECREATE — TOWARDS A COVID-RESILIENT SINGAPORE
7
5
Emerging Stronger Taskforce Safe Business Events
COVID-19 has continued to deeply Goal To facilitate a significant demonstration of MICE events to
impact Singapore’s tourism sector. test the concept of a trusted, safe and innovative business event in
However, it has created opportunities the COVID-19 environment.
for businesses to reach beyond
their known capabilities and emerge STB, the Singapore Association of Safe Travel Concierge, MICE pods, Singapore
stronger and more digitally capable Convention & Exhibition Organisers controlled itineraries, and rigorous Safe International
Energy Week
than before. & Suppliers, and MICE stakeholders Management Measures protocols.
250
teamed up to work with relevant The latter included re-imagined safe
attendees
To ride on these opportunities and authorities to address health and exhibition booths equipped with
to guide Singapore’s economic safety concerns about business protective plexiglass to reduce droplet
recovery, the Emerging Stronger events during the pandemic. The transmission, and safe meeting TravelRevive
Taskforce and Alliance for Action was Safe Business Events Framework pods to safely facilitate 600 one-to- <1,000
created. This collaboration leveraged was developed to provide guidelines one meetings between exhibitors attendees
the complementary expertise and for hybrid event prototypes including and buyers. TravelRevive attracted
65 foreign delegates
networks of public and private sector safe business events, safe itineraries, nearly 1,000 local and international from 14 countries
stakeholders from various parts of the and safe digital enablers in Singapore. physical attendees including 65 foreign
industry value chain. The team worked with the Energy delegates from 14 countries.
Market Authority to pilot Singapore The team also successfully trialled
International Energy Week (25-29 the hybrid event prototype at the
October 2020). This was the first second pilot tradeshow, GeoConnect
MICE event with up to 250 attendees Asia in March 2021. Developed with
including foreign delegates. It was Montgomery Asia, the event generated
also the first MICE event to conduct key creative solutions including Geo
pre-event testing to ensure the safety Suites – in which the usual tradeshow
of attendees. floor was replaced with ballrooms
converted into exhibition booths –
Together with Messe Berlin Singapore, and the Safe Event platform, a solution
Marina Bay Sands, Pico and GevMe, leveraging geospatial technology.
the team also launched TravelRevive Created by local tech companies
in November 2020. TravelRevive was Viatick and Trakomatic during the
the first major international tradeshow SafeEvent Challenge at IMDA’s Open
in Asia-Pacific to take place during Innovation Platform, the platform
COVID-19 in a hybrid format. In place tracks the movement and enhances
were innovative solutions such as the safety of delegates.

--- PAGE 84 ---

RECREATE — TOWARDS A COVID-RESILIENT SINGAPORE
7
6
Safe Itineraries Key Digital Enablers
Goal To develop innovative and immersive products that provide Goal To leverage technology to deliver a safe and seamless end-to-end
visitors with safe and personalised experiences; incorporate a visitor experience that incorporates health and safety measures. These
high-level of tracking and Safe Management Measures; and digital enablers fulfil visitors’ travel requirements; support new event
consider key enablers that facilitate travel, such as travel insurance. formats with innovative and rigorous Safe Management Measures; and
enable the development of safe itineraries.
The National Association of Travel The team also partnered with General
Agents Singapore, Changi Airport Insurance Association of Singapore STB, Changi Airport Group, and MICE Pods at TravelRevive 2020 to
Group, Singapore Discovery Centre to launch an open call for private the Singapore Hotel Association collect interaction data on how people
and STB tested various itineraries sector insurers to offer inbound travel steered the development of digital adhere to Safe Management Measures.
that offered visitors safe and bespoke insurance products that provide enablers such as the Safe Travel
leisure experiences. TravelRevive assurance to travellers coming to Concierge web application – To ensure the health and safety of
delegates were the first to experience Singapore. In response, AIG Asia a one-stop resource that helps both delegates, the team worked with
these test itineraries. Two appointed Pacific Insurance Pte Ltd, Chubb travellers and tourism businesses A*STAR to trial an integrated Artificial
Destination Management Companies Insurance Singapore Limited and HL manage pre-arrival requirements and Intelligence monitoring system with
developed 24 safe itinerary Assurance Pte Ltd developed travel post-arrival itineraries. thermal temperature screening, crowd
programmes that were aligned to insurance products which provide at monitoring, and mask detection.
the prevailing Safe Management least S$30,000 in coverage for COVID- The team also collaborated with the
Measures and catered to different 19-related medical treatment and Ministry of Health and GovTech to trial
traveller archetypes and risk appetites. hospitalisation costs. This was the first
Experiences included virtual tours time Singapore-based insurers had
with hands-on activities that delegates designed such a product.
could participate in from their hotel
rooms, private museum site visits, and As tourist guides play a central role
guided visits to Pulau Ubin. In addition, in providing a quality tour experience,
a safe COVID-19 itinerary guide was the team worked with NTUC Learning
developed to help the travel trade Hub to develop a training course to
navigate the new requirements upskill tourist guides, and enable them
for inbound visitors, and respond to provide personal concierge-like
to new traveller priorities such services, and implement and monitor
as safety, exclusivity, and small Safe Management Measures.
group experiences. The team also partnered NTUC and
various tourism associations to develop
a new Tourism Sector Capability
Development Roadmap.

--- PAGE 85 ---

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
STB continues to uphold
high standards of corporate
governance, ensuring
corporate transparency and
the people’s trust in us.

--- PAGE 86 ---

7
8
BOARD GOVERNANCE
Responsibilities of the Board Board Composition
The Board oversees and monitors and Appointment
STB’s organisational performance There were twelve Directors on the The size and composition of the The Board is given the mandate to act
and achievement of strategic Board from 1 April 2020 to 31 March Board are guided by the clauses stated independently and to exercise objective
goals and objectives. It assumes 2021 with the following movements: in the STB Act. The desired outcome judgment on the STB’s corporate
the responsibility of reviewing and — the retirement of Mr Quek Swee is the provision of a conducive affairs. This is to ensure that checks
approving corporate strategies, Kuan on 31 Mar 2020; environment for effective discussions and balances are instituted. Apart from
budgets and financial plans. — the appointment of Ms Thien Kwee and decision-making. The process for Mr Keith Tan and Ms Thien Kwee Eng,
Eng on 1 June 2020; the appointment of Directors to the the other Directors on the Board are
— and the reappointment of Board is kept formal and transparent as Independent Directors. A Director’s
Mr Chaly Mah, Mr Allen Law, this is critical to the role that corporate independence is re-assessed at the
Mr Saiful Saroni, Ms Audrey Kuah, governance plays. A review of the point of each re-appointment.
Mrs Wong Ai Ai, Ms Joanna Flint Directors’ membership on the Board
and Mr Prasad Menon with effect is done when his or her official term of
from 1 January 2020. appointment ends.

--- PAGE 87 ---

7
9
Conduct of Board Affairs TABLE 1:
Directors’ attendance at Board meetings FY 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021
The Board approves financial
transactions above a certain financial
limit. A regular review of the financial
authorisation and approval limits Scheduled Board Meetings Board Workshop1
is performed. During each financial
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended
year, the Directors are requested to
complete an annual Board Evaluation Mr Chaly Mah 5 5 1 1
Questionnaire that allows the STB to
Mr Keith Tan 5 5 1 1
assess the overall administration of
Board matters and engagements with Mr Saiful Saroni 5 5 1 1
the Board. Under the year in review,
Mr Allen Law 5 5 1 1
there were a total of five scheduled
Ms Joanna Flint 5 5 1 1
Board meetings and a half-day Board
Workshop to discuss key strategic Ms Audrey Kuah 5 5 1 1
issues. A record of the Directors’
Mr Lim Eng Hwee 5 5 1 1
attendance at Board meetings during
the financial year, which ended on Mr Aaron Maniam 5 3 1 1
31 March 2021, is set out in Table 1.
Mr Prasad Menon 5 5 1 1
Ms Thien Kwee Eng2 4 4 1 1
Mr Ravi Thakran 5 5 1 1
Mrs Wong Ai Ai 5 5 1 1
1 Held on 9 November 2020
2 Ms Thien Kwee Eng was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2020 and was scheduled for four Board meetings.

--- PAGE 88 ---

8
0
Corporate Governance TABLE 2:
Director’s Board Committee memberships and attendance
Directors are given access to the
at Board Committee meetings in FY 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021
STB’s records and information, senior
management, or any other staff of the
organisation as deemed necessary ARC FIC Governance HRMC
for them to effectively discharge their
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
responsibilities and to deliberate
meaningfully on issues discussed at Mr Chaly Mah 1 1 3 3
Board meetings.
Mr Keith Tan 3 3 1 1 3 3
The following Board Committees assist Mr Saiful Saroni 3 3
the Board in executing its duties:
Mr Allen Law 3 3
— Audit and Risk Committee (ARC)
Ms Joanna Flint 3 3
— Finance and Investment
Committee (FIC) Ms Audrey Kuah 3 3
— Governance Committee
Mr Lim Eng Hwee 3 1
— Human Resource Management
Committee (HRMC) Mr Aaron Maniam 3 2
Mr Prasad Menon 1 1
A record of each Director’s Board
Committee memberships and Ms Thien Kwee Eng1 3 3
attendance at Board Committee
Mr Ravi Thakran 3 1
meetings during the financial year,
Mrs Wong Ai Ai 3 3
which ended on 31 March 2021,
is set out in Table 2.
1 Ms Thien Kwee Eng was appointed to the FIC with effect from 1 June 2020 and was scheduled for three FIC meetings.

--- PAGE 89 ---

8
1
ACCOUNTABILITY, INTERNAL CONTROLS
AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Audit and Risk Committee External Audit Internal Audit
The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) In addition, the ARC also met with As part of the audit of the annual The Internal Audit reports functionally
comprises four independent and the external auditors and staff of financial statements, the external to the Chairman of the ARC and
non-executive Directors. At least Internal Audit without the presence auditors conduct a review of the administratively to the Chief Executive.
two members of the ARC have the of Management, during the financial significant internal controls. Any As part of its auditing, the Internal Audit
requisite accounting or related financial year. In order to properly discharge material non-compliance and/ is guided by the current International
management expertise to discharge its function and duties, reasonable or internal control weaknesses, Professional Practices Framework
their responsibilities and duties. resources are made available to together with the external auditors’ issued by the Institute of Internal
the ARC. recommendations, are addressed and Auditors. The adequacy of funding and
The responsibilities of the ARC made known to the ARC. To maintain staffing of the Internal Audit and its
include ensuring the adequacy of Internal Controls the independence of the external appropriate standing within the STB is
internal controls and reviewing audit The Board ensures that Management auditors, the ARC has reviewed the ensured by the ARC.
plans, audit reports and audited STB maintains a sound system of internal nature and extent of non-audit services
Annual Financial Statements. Besides controls to safeguard the interests of provided by the external auditors during The Internal Audit adopts risk-based
overseeing accountability and audit, the stakeholders and the assets of the the year and the fees paid for such auditing as its key audit assurance
ARC also assists the Board by providing STB. The ARC ensures that a review services. The ARC is satisfied that the practice. It provides regional offices,
oversight of the STB’s Enterprise Risk of the effectiveness of the STB’s independence of the external auditors process owners and policymakers
Management Framework through internal controls – including financial, has not been impaired by the provision of the STB, with reasonable
regular risk management reports operational and compliance controls, of those services. The external auditors assurance on the effectiveness of
from Management. and risk management – takes place have also provided confirmation of its control and governance processes
annually through the various audits independence to the ARC. in the management of risks and
The ARC has explicit authority to performed internally and through accomplishment of objectives.
investigate any matter within its terms related reports issued to the ARC.
of reference; it also has full access For certain projects or areas where
to, and cooperation of, Management. independent expertise is required in
It has direct access to the Internal connection with the review of controls,
Audit and external auditors with external professionals and service
full discretion to invite any Board providers are appointed accordingly.
Member or Management staff to attend
its meetings.

--- PAGE 90 ---

8
2
Whistleblowing Policy Finance and Governance Committee Human Resource
The STB has a whistleblowing policy Investment Committee The Governance Committee comprises Management Committee
to allow employees, stakeholders and The Finance and Investment three Directors, including the Chairman The Human Resource Management
the general public to report concerns Committee (FIC) comprises four of the Board. The Committee’s main Committee (HRMC) comprises four
that have significant impact on the Directors. Its responsibilities are focus is to ensure the effectiveness Directors, including the Chairman of
Board and its operations, locally and broadly categorised into Finance of the Board and Board Committees. the Board. Its responsibilities include
overseas. The policy aims to encourage and Fund Management. It endorses To ensure that the Board has the providing guidance on leadership
the reporting of such matters in STB’s work plans and budget before appropriate balance of skills and development and talent management
good faith, with the confidence that submission to the Board for approval. experience to deal with the strategic matters; reviewing compensation
persons making such reports will be The Committee approves tenders issues and challenges facing the policies and structures to ensure
treated fairly and, to the fullest extent as part of tender committee, and STB, the Governance Committee competitiveness; endorsing the
possible, protected from reprisals. expenditures in accordance to the reviews the appointments and promotion of officers to or within
All whistleblower reports, including the STB’s Financial Regulations. It also renewals of Directors, and provides Salary Grade 15 and above (i.e. the
identity of the whistleblower will be approves any proposed changes to recommendations where possible. equivalent of Superscale Grades in the
treated with confidentiality. Reports the STB’s Financial Regulations. It It also assumes the responsibility for Civil Service); the assessment of the
can be lodged directly to the Head approves the STB’s investment policy, conducting an annual evaluation of STB’s performance report to the Board
of STB Internal Audit via email at objectives, guidelines, strategies the Board’s effectiveness. Members; and reviewing and approving
ethics@stb.gov.sg. and appointment of external fund recommendations on disciplinary
manager(s) in respect of surplus funds matters pertaining to senior members
available for financial investments and of the Management.
reviews these matters at least once a
year. The Committee also ensures that
financial investments are conducted in
compliance with statutory legislation
and government directives.

--- PAGE 91 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021

--- PAGE 92 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C O N T E N T S
PAGE
Statement by Singapore Tourism Board 1
Independent auditor’s report 2 - 5
Statement of financial position 6
Statement of comprehensive income 7
Statement of changes in equity 8
Statement of cash flows 9
Notes to financial statements 10 - 36

--- PAGE 94 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”) which comprise the
statement of financial position as at 31 March 2021, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement
of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 6 to 36.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Board are properly drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, Act 5 of 2018 (“PSG Act”), the Singapore
Tourism Board Act, Cap 305B (“STB Act”) and Statutory Board Financial Reporting Standards (“SB-FRS”) so
as to present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Board as at 31 March 2021 and the
financial performance, changes in equity and cash flows of the Board for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (“SSAs”). Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Board in accordance with the Accounting and
Corporate Regulatory Authority Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and
Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Information Other than Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Statement by
Singapore Tourism Board set out on page 1, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
2

--- PAGE 95 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial
Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and SB-FRS, and for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
A statutory board is constituted based on its constitutional act and its dissolution requires Parliament’s
approval.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Board’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless there is intention to wind up the Board or for the Board to cease
operations.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Board’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Board’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Board’s ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Board to cease to continue as a
going concern.
3

--- PAGE 96 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
that we identify during our audit.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Opinion
In our opinion:
(a) the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets by the
Board during the year are, in all material respects, in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act,
STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the
Board; and
(b) proper accounting and other records have been kept, including records of all assets of the Board
whether purchased, donated or otherwise.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with SSAs. Our responsibilities under those standards are further
described in theAuditor’s Responsibilities for the Compliance Audit section of our report. We are independent
of the Board in accordance with the ACRA Code together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on management’s compliance.
Responsibilities of Management for Compliance with Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Management is responsible for ensuring that the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the
acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the
requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the Board. This responsibility
includes monitoring related compliance requirements relevant to the Board, and implementing internal
controls as management determines are necessary to enable compliance with the requirements.
4

--- PAGE 97 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Compliance Audit
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s compliance based on our audit of the financial
statements. We planned and performed the compliance audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance
with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to
moneys of or managed by the Board.
Our compliance audit includes obtaining an understanding of the internal control relevant to the receipts,
expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets; and assessing the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements from non-compliance, if any, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Board’s internal control. Because of the inherent limitations
in any internal control system, non-compliances may nevertheless occur and not be detected.
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
14 July 2021
5

--- PAGE 98 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 March 2021
Note 2021 2020
$’000 $’000
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 6 195,104 191,992
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 7 13,092 39,825
Finance lease receivable 8 772 725
Financial assets under fund management 9 265,944 245,118
Total current assets 474,912 477,660
Non-current assets
Prepayments 7 51 103
Finance lease receivable 8 16,360 17,132
Property, plant and equipment 10 271,663 290,677
Right-of-use assets 11 236,914 265,185
Intangible assets 12 10,198 12,761
Other investments 13 2,076 2,076
Other assets 150 150
Total non-current assets 537,412 588,084
Total assets 1,012,324 1,065,744
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 78,822 89,177
Advances and deposits received 15 11,316 10,238
Lease liabilities 17 15,254 15,771
Total current liabilities 105,392 115,186
Non-current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 49 61
Deferred capital grants 16 184,141 197,796
Lease liabilities 17 22,839 34,354
Total non-current liabilities 207,029 232,211
Equity
Share capital 18 571,787 566,584
Accumulated surplus 128,040 151,687
Revaluation reserve 76 76
Total equity 699,903 718,347
Total liabilities and equity 1,012,324 1,065,744
Net (liabilities)/assets of Trust and Agency Funds 19 (924) 355,203
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
6

--- PAGE 99 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Year ended 31 March 2021
Note 2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Operating income 20 17,214 41,889
Less: operating expenses
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 (23,371) (25,157)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 (30,667) (30,440)
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 (6,726) (6,013)
Employee benefit expenses 21 (88,001) (86,614)
Other operating expenses (154,634) (164,214)
(303,399) (312,438)
Non-operating income and expenses
Investment income 22 20,826 4,564
Other income 23 1,427 89,585
Other expenses 24 (2,135) (2,789)
20,118 91,360
Operating loss before Government grants (266,067) (179,189)
Government grants
Operating grants 242,193 222,427
Amortisation of deferred capital grants 16 16,147 16,067
258,340 238,494
Net (deficit)/surplus before contribution to
Consolidated Fund (7,727) 59,305
Contribution to Consolidated Fund 25 - -
(Deficit)/Surplus for the year, representing total
comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (7,727) 59,305
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
7

--- PAGE 100 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 31 March 2021
Share Accumulated Revaluation
capital surplus reserve Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance as at 1 April 2019 562,565 92,382 76 655,023
Equity injections (Note 18) 4,019 - - 4,019
Surplus for the year, representing total
comprehensive income for the year - 59,305 - 59,305
Balance as at 31 March 2020 566,584 151,687 76 718,347
Dividends (Note 28) - (15,920) - (15,920)
Equity injections (Note 18) 5,203 - - 5,203
Deficit for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year - (7,727) - (7,727)
Balance as at 31 March 2021 571,787 128,040 76 699,903
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
8

--- PAGE 101 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Year ended 31 March 2021
Note 2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Operating activities
(Deficit)/Surplus for the year (7,727) 59,305
Adjustment for:
Operating grants (242,193) (222,427)
Reversal of allowance of credit losses 23 (75) -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 23,371 25,157
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 32,780 32,470
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 6,726 6,013
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 73
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets (9) (88,236)
Interest income (8,429) (9,240)
Deferred long-term lease - (58)
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 16 (16,147) (16,067)
Fair value (gain)/loss on financial assets under fund
management (15,341) 3,083
Finance lease income (1,650) (1,694)
Lease interest expense 2,127 2,712
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (226,559) (208,909)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 26,860 (222)
Accruals and other payables (10,367) 1,260
Advances and deposits received 1,078 (1,928)
Cash used in operations (208,988) (209,799)
Interest received 10,079 10,934
Interest paid (2,127) (2,712)
Net cash used in operating activities (201,036) (201,577)
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10 (4,468) (4,422)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (4,163) (9,473)
Proceeds from disposal/reclassification of right-of-use
assets and property, plant and equipment 1,540 96,954
Repayment of finance lease receivables 725 682
Investment under fund management (5,485) 8,003
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (11,851) 91,744
Financing activities
Operating grants received 242,193 212,099
Capital grants received 16 2,492 884
Equity injection 18 5,203 4,019
Repayment of lease liabilities (17,969) (15,743)
Dividend paid (15,920) -
Net cash from financing activities 215,999 201,259
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,112 91,426
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6 191,992 100,566
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6 195,104 191,992
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
9

--- PAGE 102 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
1 GENERAL
The Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”), a Singapore statutory board under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry (“MTI”), is established in the Republic of Singapore under the Singapore Tourism Board
Act, Cap 305B (the “Act”) with its registered office and principal place of operations at Tourism Court,
1 Orchard Spring Lane, Singapore 247729.
The primary functions and duties of the Board are:
(i) To develop and promote Singapore as a travel and tourist destination;
(ii) To advise the Government on matters relating to travel and tourism;
(iii) To enhance the travel and tourism sector’s contribution to the Singapore economy; and
(iv) To exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of such tourism enterprises as the Board
may determine.
These financial statements are presented in Singapore dollar, which is the Board’s functional currency.
All values presented are rounded to the nearest thousand (“$’000”), unless indicated otherwise.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
The financial statements of the Board for the year ended 31 March 2021 were authorised for issue by
the Board of Directors on 14 July 2021.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost basis, except as disclosed
in the accounting policies below, and are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of PSG Act, STB
Act and SB-FRS, including Interpretations of SB-FRS (“INT SB-FRS”) and SB-FRS Guidance Notes.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for services.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price
is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of
an asset or a liability, the Board takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability which
market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement
date.
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in the financial statements is determined
on such a basis, except for leasing transactions that are within the scope of SB-FRS 116 Leases, and
measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as value in use in
SB-FRS 36 Impairment of Assets.
2.2 Adoption of new and revised standards
On 1 April 2020, the Board adopted all the new and revised SB-FRSs, INT SB-FRS and
SB-FRS Guidance Notes that are effective from that date and relevant to its operations. The adoption
of these standards does not result in changes to the Board’s accounting policies and has no material
effect on the amounts reported for the current or prior year.
10

--- PAGE 103 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
2.3 Standards issued but not yet effective
Management has assessed and is of the view that the adoption of the new/revised SB-FRSs,
INT SB-FRSs and amendments to SB-FRS that are issued as at the date of authorisation of these
financial statements but effective only in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial
statements in the period of their initial adoption.
2.4 Financial instruments
Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised on the statement of financial position when, and only when the Board
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial assets are initially measured
at fair value. All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either
amortised cost or fair value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
(i) Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at amortised
cost:
· The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
· The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are derecognised or impaired,
and through the amortisation process.
(ii) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”):
· the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
· the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Equity instruments designated as at FVTOCI
The Board has made an irrevocable election to designate its investment in unquoted equity
shares that are not held for trading as at FVTOCI on initial application of SB-FRS 109
(see Note 13). The Board is of the view that the cost of the unquoted equity shares represents
the fair value of the investment.
11

--- PAGE 104 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
Investment in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction
costs. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes
in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments
revaluation reserve. The cumulative gain or loss will not be reclassified to profit or loss on
disposal of the equity investments, instead, they will be transferred to accumulated surplus.
Dividends on these investments in equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the
Board’s right to receive the dividends is established, unless the dividends clearly represent a
recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
By default, all other financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or
loss (“FVTPL”).
Despite the aforegoing, the Board may make the following irrevocable election/designation at
initial recognition of a financial asset:
· the Board may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity
investment in other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met; and
· the Board may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or
FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value as at each reporting date, with any fair
value gains or losses recognised in profit or loss to the extent they are not part of a designated
hedging relationship. Financial assets at FVTPL include the Board’s investment portfolio of quoted
debt instruments, quoted equity securities and derivative financial instruments under fund
management. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest
earned on the financial assets and is included in the “investment income” (Note 22).
Impairment of financial assets
The Board recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt instruments not
held at FVTPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Board expects to receive, discounted at an
approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows
from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit
exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss
allowance is recognised for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective
of timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
For debtors, the Board applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Board does
not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each
reporting date. The ECLs on these financial assets are estimated based on the Board’s historical credit
loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
environment which could affect debtors’ ability to pay.
12

--- PAGE 105 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
The Board considers a financial asset in default when internal or external information indicates that
the Board is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full. A financial asset is written
off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Board derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the
asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the asset to another party. On derecognition, any difference between the carrying amount
and the sum of proceeds received is recognised in the profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments issued by the Board are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a
financial liability and an equity instrument.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Board after
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Board are recognised at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
Pursuant to the Finance Circular Minute (“FCM”) No. 26/2008 on Capital Management Framework
(“CMF”), equity injection from the Singapore Government (the “Government”) is recorded as share
capital.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method
or at FVTPL. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised,
and through the amortisation process.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured
at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Board derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Board’s obligations are
discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial
liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable, including any non-cash assets transferred
or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
13

--- PAGE 106 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
2.5 Leases
The Board as lessee
The Board assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Board
recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease
term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets. For these leases, the Board recognises the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from
the leased assets are consumed.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be
readily determined, the Authority uses the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lessee.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise of:
· fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives
The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on
the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made.
The Board remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related
right-of-use asset) whenever:
· the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase
option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments
using a revised discount rate;
· the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment
under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured by discounting
the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease payments change is
due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used); or
· a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease,
in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using
a revised discount rate.
The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability,
lease payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Right-of-use assets are calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their depreciable amounts
over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the underlying assets as follows:
Leasehold land - 3 to 99 years
Commercial units - 2 to 8 years
Residential units - 2 to 4 years
Office equipment - 2 to 5 years
Motor vehicles - 3 years
14

--- PAGE 107 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
The right-of-use assets are presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The Board applies SB-FRS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for
any identified impairment loss accordingly.
Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the
lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the
period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs and are included in the line
‘Other operating expenses’ in the statement of comprehensive income.
As a practical expedient, SB-FRS 116 permits a lessee not to separate non-lease components,
and instead account for any lease and associated non-lease components as a single arrangement.
The Board has not used this practical expedient. For a contract that contains a lease component and
one or more additional lease or non-lease components, the Board allocates the consideration in the
contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the lease component
and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components.
The Board as lessor
Leases for which the Board is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee,
the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When the Board is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two
separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease by reference to the
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant
lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the
carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the
Board’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Board’s net investment outstanding in respect of the
leases.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Measurement
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment initially recognised includes its purchase price
and any cost that is directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Board.
15

--- PAGE 108 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
Depreciation
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are available for use.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method to allocate their depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Buildings - 10 to 99 years
Building improvements - 4 to 7 years
Furniture, fittings and equipment - 2 to 10 years
Motor vehicles - 5 years
Electrical installation and air-conditioners - 3 to 7 years
Infrastructure - 4 to 30 years
The residual values, estimated useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at each financial
year-end, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. The effects of any revision of the residual values
and useful lives are included in income or expenditure when the changes arise.
Derecognition
On disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment, the difference between the
disposal proceeds and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.
2.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation (where they have finite useful
lives) and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line
method on the following bases:
Computer software - 3 to 5 years
Intangible assets under development are not depreciated until they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and amortisation method of intangible assets are reviewed
at the end of each reporting period with the effect of any changes in estimates accounted for on a
prospective basis.
An item of intangible assets is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in
the profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Board reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial assets
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount
of an individual asset, the Board estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs.
16

--- PAGE 109 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit)
is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised immediately as income, unless the asset is valued at revalued amount, in which
case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
2.9 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Board has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
of a past event, it is probable that the Board will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the
present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle
the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
2.10 Trust and agency funds
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2.11 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Board will comply
with the conditions attaching to them and the grants will be received. Government grants whose
primary condition is that the Board should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire non-current assets
are recognised as deferred capital grant in the statement of financial position and transferred to income
or expenditure on a systematic and rational basis over the useful lives of the related assets.
Other government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with
the costs for which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants that
are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving
immediate financial support to the Board with no future related costs are recognised in income or
expenses in the period in which they become receivable.
17

--- PAGE 110 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
2.12 Income recognition
Income is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes
amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Events-related income
Events-related income is recognised over time when the Board satisfies a performance obligation by
transferring control of a service to the customer. The amount of income recognised is the amount of
the transaction price allocated to each satisfied performance obligation. Transaction price is the
amount of consideration in the contract to which the Board expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring the promised services.
Lease income
The Board’s policy for recognition of income from operating leases is described in Note 2.5 above.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised over time, on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
2.13 Defined contribution plans
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense when employees
have rendered the services entitling them to the contributions. Payments made to state-managed
retirement benefit schemes, such as the Singapore Central Provident Fund, are dealt with as payments
to defined contribution plans where the Board’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to those
arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
2.14 Employee leave entitlement
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is
made for the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to
the end of the reporting period.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances, fixed deposit with financial institutions
and cash balances placed with the Accountant-General’s Department (“AGD”) which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value.
18

--- PAGE 111 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
2.16 Foreign currency transactions and translation
In preparing the financial statements, transactions in currencies other than the Board’s functional
currency are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling
at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the application of the Board’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, management is
required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future
periods.
Management is of the opinion that there are no critical judgements or significant estimates that would
have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
4 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, FINANCIAL RISKS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Categories of financial instruments
The following table sets out the financial instruments as at the end of the reporting period:
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Financial assets
Financial assets at amortised cost:
Deposits and other receivables excluding
prepayments (Note 7) 9,590 36,224
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 195,104 191,992
Cash balances under fund management (Note 9) 5,694 10,732
Others under fund management (Note 9) - 43
Finance lease receivables (Note 8) 17,132 17,857
227,520 256,848
Financial assets measured at FVTPL (Note 9) 260,877 234,343
Other investments (Note 13) 2,076 2,076
490,473 493,267
19

--- PAGE 112 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Others under fund management (Note 9) 627 -
Accruals and other payables (Note 14) 85,158 89,648
Lease liabilities (Note 17) 38,093 50,125
123,878 139,773
(b) Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Board’s key financial risks include market risk (including interest rate risk, currency risk and
market price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
There has been no change to the Board’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in
which it manages and measures the risk. Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity
analysis indicated below.
The Board does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
(i) Foreign exchange risk management
The Board has exposure to foreign currency risk as a result of its externally managed
investments in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
For the externally managed investments, the fund managers use foreign exchange
derivative financial instruments when necessary to reduce exposure to fluctuation in
foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect
any reasonable possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates to have a significant
impact on the Board’s operations and cash flows.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
The Board’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to its deposits with AGD,
and quoted debt securities as disclosed in Notes 6 and 9 respectively.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect
any reasonable possible changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the
Board’s operations and cash flows.
(iii) Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations
resulting in financial loss to the Board. In managing credit risk exposure, credit review and
approval processes as well as monitoring mechanisms are applied.
20

--- PAGE 113 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
The Board’s major classes of financial assets are cash and deposits with AGD, cash and
bank balances, other receivables, and financial assets held at fair value through profit or
loss. The maximum exposure to credit risk for each class of financial assets is the carrying
amount of that class of financial instruments presented on the statement of financial
position.
(iv) Market price risk management
The Board is exposed to market risks arising from quoted equity securities, quoted debt
instruments and derivative investments designated as fair value through profit or loss
(FVTPL), managed by fund managers. The Board diversifies its portfolio in accordance with
its investment mandate to manage exposure to fluctuations in market prices.
Further details of these investments can be found in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Market price sensitivity
The sensitivity analyses have been determined based on the exposure to market price
risks at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of the FVTPL investments, if the underlying market prices had been
2% higher/lower, the deficit of the Board will decrease/increase by $5,218,000
(2020 : surplus of the Board would increase/decrease by $4,687,000). The Board’s
sensitivity to equity prices has increased from the prior year.
(v) Liquidity risk management
The Board manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient funds to enable it to meet its
operational requirements.
The Board’s objective is to maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate
by management to finance the Board’s operations. The investment portfolio comprises
mainly quoted debt securities with resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity.
The Board has non-derivative financial assets as shown on the statement of financial
position under financial assets under fund management which are substantially managed
externally by professional fund managers. The non-derivative financial assets comprise
investments in debt securities which are quoted (as disclosed under Note 9). The
non-derivative financial assets may be liquidated readily when required.
The Board does not have any significant exposure to liquidity risk as at the end of each
reporting period.
21

--- PAGE 114 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
(vi) Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Board classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has
the following levels:
a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1);
b) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
(Level 2); and
c) input for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
Quoted equity securities and quoted debt instruments (Note 9) are measured based on
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Unquoted equity shares (Note 13) are measured based
on Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The Board is of the view that the cost of the unquoted
equity shares represents the fair value of the investment.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the
year.
Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities
recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
(c) Capital risk management policies and objectives
The Board manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while
fulfilling its objective as a statutory board.
The Board is required to comply with the Capital Management Framework for Statutory Boards
detailed in Finance Circular Minute M26/2008, including the need to declare annual dividends to
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in return for the equity injection.
The capital structure of the Board consists of accumulated surplus and capital account.
The overall strategy of the Board remains unchanged from the previous financial year.
5 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(a) Transactions with Ministries and Government Agencies
For the purposes of these financial statements, related parties refer to Ministries, Organ of States
and other Statutory Boards. The transactions with Government-related entities (other than
Ministries, Organ of States, and other Statutory Boards), are not disclosed unless there are
circumstances to indicate that these transactions are of interest to the readers of the financial
statements.
Some of the Board’s transactions and arrangements are with related parties and the effect of
these on the basis determined between the parties is reflected in these financial statements.
The balances are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand unless otherwise stated.
22

--- PAGE 115 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
Other than as disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following significant transactions
took place between the Board and its related parties during the financial year:
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
MTI
Services and expenses paid to MTI 1,492 697
Services rendered to MTI (385,789) (683,675)
Other Ministries and Government Agencies
Purchases and services paid to other government agencies 35,909 1,381,501
Expenses made on behalf by other government agencies 3,215 2,146
Services rendered to other ministries (63,820) (103,701)
Services rendered to other government agencies (2,897) (1,752)
(b) Board members and key management personnel remuneration
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Remuneration and other short-term benefits 3,417 3,214
Contributions to defined contribution plan 122 114
3,539 3,328
The above includes Board members’ allowance of $157,058 (2020 : $158,468).
6 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Cash and bank deposits (i) 195,104 191,992
(i) This included cash and bank deposits placed with Accountant General’s Department (“AGD”)
under the Centralised Liquidity Management Scheme (“CLM”) under AGD Circular 4/2009. The
CLM Scheme includes placement of cash deposits with approved financial institutions. Deposits,
which are interest-bearing, are centrally managed by AGD and are available to the Board upon
request and earn interest at the average rate of 0.79% (2020 : 1.93%) per annum.
23

--- PAGE 116 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
7 DEPOSITS, PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Deposits 1,627 1,689
Prepayments 3,553 3,704
Other receivables:
- Operating grants - 20,584
- Ministries and other government agencies 1,715 1,635
- Others 6,261 12,433
13,156 40,045
Less: Allowance for credit losses (13) (117)
Net deposits, prepayments and other receivables 13,143 39,928
Less: Non-current prepayments (51) (103)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables presented as
current assets 13,092 39,825
Allowance for credit losses has been measured at an amount equal to ECL. Apart from the above,
no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the remaining receivables after taking into account
the historical default experience in which the debtors operate, together with the value of deposits.
There has been no significant change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made
during the current reporting period.
Movement in the allowance for credit losses:
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year 117 117
Reversal of allowance recognised in profit or loss (Note 23) (75) -
Bad debts written-off (29) -
Balance at end of year 13 117
24

--- PAGE 117 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
8 FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLE
The Board entered into an agreement with a third party company incorporated in Singapore to lease
a parcel of land granted to the Board by the Singapore Land Authority for the purpose of a
tourism-related project. The average discount rate implicit in the lease is 6.4% (2020 : 6.4%)
per annum.
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Amount receivable under finance lease:
Year 1 1,825 1,825
Year 2 1,825 1,825
Year 3 1,825 1,825
Year 4 1,825 1,825
Year 5 1,825 1,825
Year 6 onwards 16,886 18,711
Gross investment in the lease 26,011 27,836
Less: Unearned finance income (8,879) (9,979)
Present value of minimum lease receivable 17,132 17,857
Net investment in the lease analysed as:
Recoverable within 12 months 772 725
Recoverable after 12 months 16,360 17,132
17,132 17,857
The following table presents the amounts included in profit or loss.
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Finance income on the net investment in finance lease 1,100 1,144
The Board’s finance lease arrangements do not include variable payments.
25

--- PAGE 118 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
9 FINANCIAL ASSETS UNDER FUND MANAGEMENT
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Financial assets/(liabilities)
Marketable investments, at market value:
- Quoted debt instruments 237,843 218,889
- Quoted equity securities 23,814 17,860
- Derivative financial instruments (780) (2,406)
Financial assets at FVTPL 260,877 234,343
Add:
- Cash balances 5,694 10,732
- Others (627) 43
Total financial assets 265,944 245,118
Amounts under fund management are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
with the fair value movements taken to profit or loss. The fair values of these investments are based
on the closing market price on the last market day of the financial year.
As part of the Board’s strategy to manage foreign currency risk, derivative financial instruments such
as foreign currency futures and forward contracts were entered into by fund managers appointed by
the Board. The gross value of financial assets under fund management denominated in United States
dollar amounted to $159.1m [net of derivatives : $29.7m] (2020 : $138.3m [net of derivatives : $25.8m])
at the end of the reporting period.
During the financial year, fair value gain [net of foreign currency exchange loss] relating to financial
assets under fund management amounting to $14,231,000 (2020 : fair value loss of $2,856,000
[net of foreign currency exchange gain]) was recorded.
26

--- PAGE 119 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Furniture, Electrical
Building fittings and installation and Capital work-in-
Buildings improvements equipment Motor vehicles air-conditioners Infrastructure progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2019 470,240 30,957 18,122 1,347 31,063 48,989 6 600,724
Additions - 1,851 358 - 141 400 1,672 4,422
Reclassifications - - - - 6 - (6) -
Disposals/Written off - (1,079) (2,676) (52) (132) - - (3,939)
As at 31 March 2020 470,240 31,729 15,804 1,295 31,078 49,389 1,672 601,207
Additions - 764 151 88 1,939 - 1,526 4,468
Reclassification - 355 - - 393 - (817) (69)
Disposals/Written off - (286) (99) (158) (545) - - (1,088)
At 31 March 2021 470,240 32,562 15,856 1,225 32,865 49,389 2,381 604,518
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2019 180,115 23,810 15,146 1,037 25,204 43,906 - 289,218
Depreciation 16,444 3,294 1,644 179 2,058 1,538 - 25,157
Disposals/Written off - (1,010) (2,672) (31) (132) - - (3,845)
As at 31 March 2020 196,559 26,094 14,118 1,185 27,130 45,444 - 310,530
Depreciation 15,888 3,109 820 96 2,039 1,419 - 23,371
Disposals/Written off - (285) (98) (158) (505) - - (1,046)
At 31 March 2021 212,447 28,918 14,840 1,123 28,664 46,863 - 332,855
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2021 257,793 3,644 1,016 102 4,201 2,526 2,381 271,663
At 31 March 2020 273,681 5,635 1,686 110 3,948 3,945 1,672 290,677
27

--- PAGE 120 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold Commercial Residential Office Motor
land units units equipment vehicles Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2019 247,013 74,185 1,783 132 - 323,113
Additions - 3,422 2,556 15 19 6,012
Adjustments - (17) - - - (17)
Disposals/Written off (12,436) (68) (46) - - (12,550)
At 31 March 2020 234,577 77,522 4,293 147 19 316,558
Additions 1,739 2,489 1,668 41 - 5,937
Disposals/Written off (2,430) (3,282) (2,635) (10) - (8,357)
At 31 March 2021 233,886 76,729 3,326 178 19 314,138
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2019 19,481 3,292 - - - 22,773
Depreciation 13,898 16,497 2,030 43 2 32,470
Disposals/Written off (3,870) - - - - (3,870)
At 31 March 2020 29,509 19,789 2,030 43 2 51,373
Depreciation 13,786 16,822 2,113 49 10 32,780
Disposals/Written off (2,430) (2,045) (2,443) (11) - (6,929)
At 31 March 2021 40,865 34,566 1,700 81 12 77,224
Carrying amount:
As at 31 March 2021 193,021 42,163 1,626 97 7 236,914
As at 31 March 2020 205,068 57,733 2,263 104 17 265,185
The Board leases several assets including leasehold land, commercial units, residential units,
office equipment and motor vehicles. The lease terms range from 2 - 99 years.
Approximately one third of the leases for property, plant and equipment expired in the current financial
year. The expired contracts were either replaced by new leases for identical underlying assets or
extended through exercising the extension options. This resulted in additions to right-of-use assets of
$5,937,000 (2020 : $6,012,000).
Depreciation of residential units amounting to $2,113,000 (2020 : $2,030,000) is shown as employee
benefits expenses under Note 21 while the remaining depreciation of right-of-use assets of
$30,667,000 (2020 : $30,440,000) is shown as a separate line in the statement of comprehensive
income.
28

--- PAGE 121 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Development
Computer projects-in-
software progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2019 27,950 671 28,621
Additions 8,185 1,288 9,473
Reclassifications 655 (655) -
Disposals/Written off (6,084) - (6,084)
At 31 March 2020 30,706 1,304 32,010
Additions 3,222 941 4,163
Reclassifications 918 (918) -
At 31 March 2021 34,846 1,327 36,173
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 April 2019 19,320 - 19,320
Amortisation for the year 6,013 - 6,013
Disposals/Written off (6,084) - (6,084)
At 31 March 2020 19,249 - 19,249
Amortisation for the year 6,726 - 6,726
At 31 March 2021 25,975 - 25,975
Carrying amounts:
At 31 March 2021 8,871 1,327 10,198
At 31 March 2020 11,457 1,304 12,761
13 OTHER INVESTMENTS
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Unquoted equity shares at FVTOCI 2,076 2,076
29

--- PAGE 122 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
14 ACCRUALS AND OTHER PAYABLES
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Accruals 51,178 60,039
Other payables:
- Ministries and other government agencies 6,617 11,157
- Others 21,076 18,042
Total accruals and other payables 78,871 89,238
Less: Amount due for settlement after 12 months (49) (61)
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 78,822 89,177
Total accruals and other payables 78,871 89,238
Add:
Advances and deposits received (Note 15) 11,316 10,238
Less:
Provision for employees’ unutilised leave (4,950) (2,894)
GST payables (79) (6,934)
Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost 85,158 89,648
The average credit period for trade payables is 30 to 90 days (2020 : 30 to 90 days).
15 ADVANCES AND DEPOSITS RECEIVED
Included in advances and deposits received are $95,950 (2020 : $82,750) received from the
Government, which are to be disbursed for designated projects.
16 DEFERRED CAPITAL GRANTS
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
At beginning of year 197,796 212,979
Capital grants received 2,492 884
Less: Amortisation of deferred capital grant (16,147) (16,067)
At end of year 184,141 197,796
30

--- PAGE 123 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
17 LEASE LIABILITIES
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Maturity analysis:
1 year 16,552 17,890
2 to 5 years 24,269 36,492
More than 5 years - 529
40,821 54,911
Less: Unearned interest (2,728) (4,786)
38,093 50,125
Represented by:
Current 15,254 15,771
Non-current 22,839 34,354
38,093 50,125
Reconciliation of lease liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the board’s lease liabilities arising from financing activities, including
both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash
flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the board’s statement of cash flows as cash flows
from financing activities.
31 March Financing New lease 31 March
2020 cash flows liabilities 2021
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Lease liabilities 50,125 (17,969) 5,937 38,093
Adoption of
FRS 116 at
31 March 1 April 1 April Financing New lease 31 March
2019 2019 2019 cash flows liabilities 2020
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Lease liabilities - 59,856 59,856 (15,743) 6,012 50,125
31

--- PAGE 124 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
18 SHARE CAPITAL
2021 2020 2021 2020
Number of ordinary shares $’000 $’000
’000 ’000
Issued and paid up:
At beginning of year 566,584 562,565 566,584 562,565
Equity injection(1) 5,203 4,019 5,203 4,019
At end of year 571,787 566,584 571,787 566,584
(1) Injections of capital in 2020 and 2021 are part of the Capital Management Framework for
Statutory Boards under Finance Circular Minute M26/2008. The shares have been fully paid for
to fund tourism-related assets and are held by the Minister for Finance, a body corporate
incorporated by the Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act (Chapter 183). The holder of these
shares, which has no par value, is entitled to receive dividends from the Board.
19 TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year 355,203 31,147
Add: Receipts - funds received from the Government 119,533 467,383
Less: Funds disbursed/payable to:
- External parties (474,009) (141,923)
- Other government agencies (1,651) (1,404)
Balance at end of year (924) 355,203
Represented by:
- Cash balances 9,203 355,587
- Other receivables 81 199
- Trade payables (9,448) (583)
- Accruals (760) -
(924) 355,203
The trust and agency funds are used for tourism-related incentive schemes and for tourism-related
development projects.
32

--- PAGE 125 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
20 OPERATING INCOME
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Events-related income 55 18,455
Lease income 14,525 17,572
Others 2,634 5,862
17,214 41,889
21 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Wages and salaries 68,460 69,180
Contributions to defined contribution plan 8,135 8,167
Other staff benefits 9,293 7,237
Depreciation on residential units 2,113 2,030
88,001 86,614
22 INVESTMENT INCOME
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Interest income 7,086 7,891
Net fair value gain/(loss) on financial assets under fund
management 15,341 (3,083)
Exchange (loss)/gain on financial assets under fund management (1,110) 227
Expenses on financial assets under fund management (491) (471)
20,826 4,564
23 OTHER INCOME
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Interest income 1,343 1,349
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets 9 88,236
Reversal of allowance for credit losses (Note 7) 75 -
1,427 89,585
33

--- PAGE 126 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
24 OTHER EXPENSES
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 73
Bad debt written off - 4
Interest expense on lease liabilities 2,127 2,712
2,135 2,789
25 CONTRIBUTION TO CONSOLIDATED FUND
The Board is required to make contributions to the Government Consolidated Fund in accordance with
the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated Fund) Act, Chapter 319A. The contribution
is based on the guidelines specified by the Ministry of Finance. It is computed at the prevailing
corporate tax rate based on the net surplus (if any) of the Board for each of the financial year adjusted
for any accumulated deficits brought forward from prior years. Contribution to consolidated fund is
provided on an accrual basis. The Board has $87,819,932 (2020 : $80,093,024) of unrecognised
deferred benefits relating to unutilised deficits to be carried forward to offset against future surplus.
At the end of the financial year, STB has accumulated deficits carried forward as follows:
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of the year 80,093 139,398
Amount recognised/(utilised) in current year 7,727 (59,305)
Balance at end of the year 87,820 80,093
Benefits on above not recognised at 17% (2020 : 17%) 14,929 13,616
Benefits in relation to the accumulated deficits were not recognised due to the unpredictability of
future surplus streams.
26 COMMITMENTS
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised in the financial
statements were analysed as follows:
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Amount contracted for capital expenditure 17,012 19,326
34

--- PAGE 127 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
(b) Other commitments
During the financial year, the Board paid a total fee of $1,136,043 (2020 : $768,941) for the
use of the computer equipment and related services under Whole-of-Government Information
Communications Technology. These incurrences were recognised in the statement of comprehensive
income.
The future aggregate minimum committed payments at the reporting date but not recognised
as liabilities as at 31 March 2021 are as follows:
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Within one year 942 644
In the second to fifth year inclusive 368 137
1,310 781
(c) In 2020, the Board guaranteed Singapore GP Pte Ltd for a standby letter of credit issued by a
bank for the purpose of the payment of the 2021 F1 race franchise fee.
27 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
The Board as a lessee
Amount recognised in profit or loss relating to leases
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Expense relating to short-term leases 1,668 1,842
Expense relating to leases of low value assets 584 637
2,252 2,479
At 31 March 2021, the Board is committed to $908,000 (2020 : $485,000) for short-term lease and
$223,000 (2020 : $277,000) for low valued assets.
35

--- PAGE 128 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2021
The Board as a lessor
The Board has entered into property leases. These leases typically run for an initial period of one to
fifteen years, with an option to renew the lease after that period. Operating and financing lease income
earned during the year was $12,875,000 (2020 : $15,878,000) and $1,650,000 (2020 : $1,694,000)
respectively.
2021 2020
$’000 $’000
Maturity analysis:
Year 1 12,521 12,289
Year 2 12,081 11,999
Year 3 9,324 11,770
Year 4 1,877 9,324
Year 5 1,934 1,877
Year 6 onwards 2,284 4,218
40,021 51,477
28 DIVIDENDS
On 16 November 2020, a one tier tax exempt interim dividend of $0.0281 per share (total dividend
$15,920,000) was paid to the Minister for Finance, a body corporate incorporated under the Minister
for Finance (Incorporation) Act (Cap. 183), in respect of the results for the financial year ended
31 March 2020.
36

--- PAGE 129 ---

S
IN
G
A
P
O
R
E
T
O
U
R
I
S
M
B
O
A
R
D