

--- PAGE 2 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CONTENTS
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 29
• Ever Innovating, Ever Transforming, 30
Ever Engaging — Singapore
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD 3 • Partnering for Success 40
• Vision & Mission 4 • Re-Inventing Hospitality 42
• Values 5 • Cruise 43
• Singapore Around the World 6 • Experience Singapore Through New Lens 44
• A Digital Future for Tourism 46
WHO WE ARE 8 • Business Travel, Meetings, Incentives, Conventions 49
• Conversation with Chairman: Chaly Mah 9 and Exhibitions (BTMICE)
• Conversation with Chief Executive: Keith Tan 11 • Developing Capabilities in the Travel Agent Sector 50
• Board of Directors 13 • COVID-19 and Its Impact on Tourism 51
• Senior Management 17 • Calendar of Events 54
• Business Groups 18 • Awards & Accolades 68
PERFORMANCE AND INITIATIVES 2019-2020 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 79
• Tourism Sector Performance 2019 26 • Board Governance 80
• Tourism Receipts by Major Components 27 • Accountability, Internal Controls and Risk Management 82
• Tourism Receipts by Major Components, Top 10 Markets 28 • Financial Statements 84
CONTENTS 2

--- PAGE 3 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
The STB is a statutory board under the Ministry of
Trade and Industry of Singapore. It is the lead
development agency for tourism, one of Singapore’s
key economic sectors. Together with industry partners
and the community, it shapes a dynamic Singapore
tourism landscape, and brings the Passion Made
Possible brand to life by differentiating Singapore as a
vibrant destination that inspires people to share and
deepen their passions. The STB ensures that tourism
remains an important and vibrant economic pillar
through long-term strategic planning, and by forging
partnerships, driving innovation and promoting
excellence in the tourism sector.
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD 3

--- PAGE 4 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
VISION MISSION
A vibrant and To shape a
inspiring dynamic
Destination tourism
Singapore landscape
that we are for Singapore in
proud of. partnership with
the industry and
community.
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD 4

--- PAGE 5 ---

SSIINNGGAAPPOORREE TTOOUURRIISSMM BBOOAARRDD AANNNNUUAALL RREEPPOORRTT 22001199--22002200
VALUES
CARE COURAGE INTEGRITY PASSION TEAM
Care for One Another Dare to Speak Behave Responsibly Believe in Our Purpose Succeed as a Team
We show empathy and care We speak up and share our We are reliable, fair and We are energetic, driven We take responsibility for
through supportive actions and thoughts with conviction and honest in our dealings with our and believe in the purpose of our our individual roles and work
encouraging words for one respect towards others. stakeholders, partners and work. together to contribute to STB’s
another and the community. colleagues. We uphold the Board’s success. We appreciate and
Dare to Dream reputation. Driven to Excel recognise everyone’s effort and
Nurture One Another We challenge traditions, norms and We love what we do and take pride celebrate success together.
We promote a nurturing assumptions with fresh ideas and in delivering impactful and quality
environment by supporting, perspectives. We take bold steps to work. Bond as a Team
helping out and looking out for experiment and translate ideas to We seek to understand
one another. plans for the future. and respect individual differences.
We make time to have fun together
Respect for One Another Dare to Do and put smiles on one another’s
We respect one another by We endeavour to make a faces.
listening to other points of view difference. We believe in
with an open mind and making wise decisions in every Learn as a Team
recognising the contribution/effort circumstance, even if it means We learn from one another by
of one another. taking calculated risks in difficult sharing knowledge and resources
or unclear situations. and learning from successes/failures
to achieve team success together.
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD 5

--- PAGE 6 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
SSIINNGGAAPPOORREE
AARROOUUNNDD TTHHEE
WWOORRLLDD
The STB’s mandate to grow Singapore’s
tourism sector is reinforced by a robust
overseas presence. Our global network
of 21 offices and five marketing
representatives promote Singapore as a
destination in seven key regions.
GREATER CHINA
Beijing
Singapore Tourism Board
AMERICAS (Singapore Centre Beijing) Chengdu
Americas (New York) Unit 3101-3106 Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Tourism Board China World Tower 1 (Singapore Centre Chengdu)
589 Fifth Avenue Germany (Frankfurt) No.1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Unit 2102, F21, Tower 2,
Suite 1702 Singapore Tourism Board Beijing 100004, Raffles City, No. 3 Section 4,
New York, NY 10017, c/o Singapore Centre People’s Republic of China South Renmin Road,
United States of America Bleichstrasse 45 Chengdu, 610041,
60313 Frankfurt, Germany Shanghai People’s Republic of China
EUROPE Singapore Tourism Board
United Kingdom (London) Italy (Milan) (Singapore Centre Shanghai) Hong Kong
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Unit 1509-11 Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Centre Marketing Representative Shui On Plaza Unit 3011 30/F
First Floor, PR & GO UP Communication 333 Huai Hai Zhong Road Tower 1 Times Square
Southwest House Partners Shanghai 200021, 1 Matheson Street
11A Regent Street via Fabio Filzi, 27 People’s Republic of China Causeway Bay, Hong Kong
London, SW1Y 4LR, 20124 Milan, Italy
United Kingdom Guangzhou Taipei
Russia (Moscow) Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board
France (Paris) Embassy of the (Singapore Centre Guangzhou) Marketing Representative
Singapore Tourism Board Republic of Singapore Unit 6104 CITIC Plaza Connex Communications Co.,
Marketing Representative Singapore Tourism Board No. 233 Tianhe North Road Ltd. 凱思品牌溝通股份有限公司
Interface Tourism Pereulok Kamennaya Sloboda 5 Guangzhou, Tianhe District 3F., No.156, Jiankang Rd.,
16 Rue Ballu 121099, Guangdong 510613, Songshan Dist., Taipei City 10586,
75009 Paris, France Moscow, Russian Federation People’s Republic of China Taiwan
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD 6

--- PAGE 7 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
SSIINNGGAAPPOORREE
AARROOUUNNDD TTHHEE
WWOORRLLDD
NORTH ASIA SOUTHEAST ASIA
Japan (Tokyo) Malaysia & Brunei India (Chennai & Bangalore)
Singapore Tourism Board (Kuala Lumpur) Marketing Representative
#3414 Marunouchi Building Singapore Tourism Board T&A Consulting
2-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Unit 6-3, Level 6
Tokyo 100-6334, Japan Menara AIA Sentral Indonesia (Jakarta) INDIA, MIDDLE EAST AND Chennai
30 Jalan Sultan Ismail Singapore Tourism Board SOUTH ASIA 318, Workafella
Korea (Seoul) 50250 Kuala Lumpur, 19th Floor, Unit 01, 1/192A, High Street
Singapore Tourism Board, 3F Seoul Malaysia Mayapada Tower 1 India (Mumbai) Anna Salai, Teynampet
Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 28 Singapore Tourism Board Chennai,
Jung-gu, Seoul, 04520, South Korea Thailand (Bangkok) Jakarta 12920, Indonesia Singapore Centre Tamil Nadu 600018, India
Singapore Tourism Board Unit 216/217, The Capital
OCEANIA Singapore Centre Indonesia (Surabaya) G Block, Near ICICI Bank Bangalore
Australia (Sydney) Unit 1702-1703, 17th Floor Singapore Tourism Board Bandra Kurla Complex, 004 Workafella Business
Singapore Tourism Board Sathorn Square Office Tower Sinar Mas Land Plaza Bandra (East), Centre, 150/1 Infantry Road
11th Floor AWA Building 98 North Sathorn Road, Wisma BII, Unit 1373, Level 13 Mumbai 400051, India Bangalore 560001,
47 York Street Silom, Bangrak Jalan Pemuda No. 60-70 Karnataka, India
Sydney NSW 2000, Australia Bangkok 10500, Thailand Surabaya 60271, Indonesia India (New Delhi)
Singapore Tourism Board United Arab Emirates (Dubai)
Australia (Melbourne) Vietnam Philippines (Manila) Singapore Centre, Unit 4A, Singapore Tourism Board
Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board Singapore Tourism Board 4th Floor, Aria Tower Sultan Business Centre
Marketing Representative Unit 03, 11th Floor 17th Floor, JW Marriott Asset Area 4 Unit 209
GTI Tourism Saigon Centre, Tower 2, 6788 Ayala Avenue Delhi Aerocity, Oud Metha Road
Ms Kerrin Trenorden 67 Le Loi, District 1, 1226 Makati City Hospitality District PO Box: 115804
Kerrin.Trenorden@gtitourism.com.au Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Manila, Philippines New Delhi 110037, India Dubai, United Arab Emirates
ABOUT SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD 7

--- PAGE 8 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
WHO
WE ARE
We are a group of passionate people committed to
building a strong tourism community and bringing
only the best Singapore to you.
WHO WE ARE 8

--- PAGE 9 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CONVERSATION WITH CHAIRMAN
CHALY MAH
Tell us about the year so far.
2020 has been very challenging, as the global Map that was first rolled out in 2016, our plans for
tourism industry faces its biggest challenge ever with sustainable growth have progressively gained
COVID-19. International travel came to a standstill momentum.
in the first half of the year, and it will take a while
before it resumes. Singapore’s tourism businesses have New technological innovations, such as the Hotel Industry
weathered the storm admirably, with many using Digital Plan, as well as talent upskilling and job redesigns
this opportunity to redesign their business processes, have been introduced. We also completed the third year
upgrade their capabilities, and implement of the Hotel Careers Campaign. These initiatives ensure
technological solutions. Others have redeployed their continuity for our future.
people to help others, and it has been heartening to
see the spirit of solidarity among our tourism partners We have made our mark on a global platform and
here in Singapore. worked hard to promote our cruise industry through
partnerships and trade engagements. With the
How about 2019? implementation of the ASEAN Cruise Work Plan 2019,
Singapore is surely well-placed to be a gateway for
2019, on the other hand, marked our fourth year of regional tourism in Southeast Asia when cruising returns.
consecutive growth, with record numbers in Tourism We are also proud to say that when it comes to BTMICE,
Receipts (TR) and International Visitor Arrivals (IVA). Singapore has been the destination of choice for many.
TR grew by 2.8 per cent from the previous year, Our world-class venues, experiential attractions and
bringing the total to S$27.7 billion while IVA rose transformative innovations draw high numbers of
3.3 per cent to 19.1 million. We are truly grateful and business travellers from all over the world to Singapore
humbled by these achievements. and will continue to do so when business travel resumes.
Across all divisions, substantial efforts have been taken 2020 has been a very different year. But our
to transform our overall tourism industry, especially in achievements in 2019 give us hope and confidence for
the hotel, cruise and BTMICE sectors. To share a few: the future. Our attributes that have made us a leading
destination for business and leisure remain strong, and
Many of our hotels have earned well-deserving we will emerge stronger from this together with our
accolades. Following the Hotel Industry Transformation tourism partners.
WHO WE ARE 9

--- PAGE 10 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CONVERSATION WITH CHAIRMAN
CHALY MAH
How has COVID-19 affected Last year, STB’s Annual Report
the tourism industry presently? was themed “Ready, Set, Go!”.
What does “Stronger Together”
There are opportunities
COVID-19 has not only hit tourism hard, but many other
mean this year for the tourism
to be found and new ideas
key economic sectors. But the safety of Singaporeans,
industry?
our residents and visitors, as well as our frontliners are to explore. We must seize
paramount. Thankfully, Singapore has been exemplary them by being open,
in managing the outbreak and its impact. The Budget Last year, we were ready and prepared for new
fearless and adaptable.
packages of close to S$100 billion set aside by the opportunities; this year, we are rising to the challenges
government to help tide Singapore through the posed by COVID-19. Even during this unprecedented We have to do this as one
pandemic have been extremely beneficial to the time, we will continue to find ways to innovate and tourism family. No matter
industry. transform the tourism industry. Even during a crisis,
which tourism sector you
there are opportunities to be found and new ideas to
come from, STB will work
STB is committed to play an active role in safeguarding explore. We must seize them by being open, fearless
public health during these times. We are constantly and adaptable. with you to navigate this
working with various agencies, such as the Ministry of period together.
Health (MOH), the Ministry of Transport (MOT) and the “Stronger Together” simply means we have to do this as
Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) to restart one tourism family. No matter which tourism sector
international travel safely. During the Circuit Breaker you come from, STB will work with you to navigate this — Mr Chaly Mah, Chairman
period, we also collaborated with Enterprise Singapore period together. This year, we also want to highlight
(ESG) and the Singapore Police Force (SPF) to ensure the many ways in which Singaporeans, our tourism
tourism-related establishments followed partners and STB can come together to chart a new
safe-distancing measures. As much as border control path ahead for tourism. At the same time, we want to
measures and the temporary cessation of operations thank our frontliners, Board and management team for
hurt our industry, they are necessary to ensure the standing by us.
safety of our people.
As we recover as a country, we will monitor the industry
closely to assist tourism businesses to get back on their
feet. STB believes that the industry is resilient and
capable. Together, we will recover and rebuild.
WHO WE ARE 10

--- PAGE 11 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CONVERSATION WITH CHIEF EXECUTIVE
KEITH TAN
What do you think attributed How has STB adapted during
to the strong tourism these unprecedented times?
performance in 2019? What are some of its key
strategies that have made
There was no single main factor. Within STB,
a difference?
our teams worked hard to expand Singapore’s appeal
to more travelers from around the world. In this
The challenges of 2020 have required major changes
report, you will see key initiatives and strategies that
in our approach and strategies. Coming off a year with
contributed to our performance. We have had many
record-breaking numbers to new lows was sobering.
new and renewed partnerships with our friends across
In the first quarter of 2020, we saw a drop of almost
the world, increasing our global influence. We also
40 per cent on average across TR, IVA and hotel room
strengthened our partnerships with important
revenues. The numbers will get much worse and the
tourism enablers like Singapore Airlines, Changi
tourism industry must prepare for a prolonged “winter”.
Airport, Trip.com, Traveloka, the 50 Best brand,
Royal Caribbean International and Alibaba/Alipay.
But I believe that we can survive and emerge stronger
through this ordeal. With our industry partners, we
Looking beyond IVA and TR, total visitor days
have strived to build a resilient and innovative sector
reached 59.80 million, a year-on-year growth of
that can adapt to the challenges. For example, our STB
4.3 per cent. These numbers indicate that Singapore
Tech College and STB Marketing College focus on
is going beyond just a “stopover” destination and is
people and talent, equipping our industries with the
instead becoming a destination of choice with much
necessary skills needed during COVID-19 and beyond.
to discover and experience.
WHO WE ARE 11

--- PAGE 12 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CONVERSATION WITH CHIEF EXECUTIVE
KEITH TAN
In 2019, STB had ramped up our digitalisation efforts, What’s in store for the
evolving within and transforming the industry by
future of Singapore
offering digital solutions to businesses. Our efforts
have paid off. The role that technology can play tourism? Our commitment to
during a time like this is immense. Our collaboration
Quality Tourism remains
with Zouk to create virtual parties was borne out of The growth that we have enjoyed over the
unchanged and our passion
COVID-19, incorporating innovative technology past four years reflects our strong tourism
elements and virtual reality. The annual Singapore fundamentals. With the support of the and dedication towards
Food Festival 2020 has also gone virtual for the first industry and through the Tourism Recovery building a vibrant
time, allowing us to bring a taste of Singapore Action Taskforce, we will continue to build
destination for both
to a much wider audience. These prove that the our capabilities, transform our tourism
Singapore experience can transcend borders and businesses and rejuvenate our tourism Singaporeans and visitors
engage just about anyone, anywhere in the world. infrastructure and precincts, in order will not waver.
to rebound strongly from this crisis.
As borders remain largely closed and will remain Our commitment to Quality Tourism remains
so for a while, we have been focusing on domestic unchanged and our passion and dedication — Mr Keith Tan, Chief Executive
tourism. Most of our local attractions have been towards building a vibrant destination for
cleared to open, welcoming visitors with renewed both Singaporeans and visitors will not
passion. STB, in partnership with Enterprise waver.
Singapore (ESG) and Sentosa Development
Corporation (SDC), launched the SingapoRediscovers
campaign — our biggest campaign to date to drive
local tourism. While local consumption will not be
at the scale of what foreign visitors used to offer,
it will support tourism businesses and jobs.
WHO WE ARE 12

--- PAGE 13 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr Chaly Mah Mr Keith Tan Ms Joanna Flint
Chairman Chief Executive Board Member
Mr Chaly Mah worked at Deloitte for over 38 years. Prior to his Mr Keith Tan assumed the appointment of Chief Executive of Ms Joanna Flint is Managing Director of Google’s Partner Business for
retirement on 31 May 2016, he was Chief Executive Officer of the Singapore Tourism Board on 29 October 2018. Asia Pacific and is responsible for strategic partnerships with media,
Deloitte Asia Pacific and Chairman of Deloitte Singapore, and Vice consultancies, data/tech partners across the region. Formerly, she was
Chairman of Deloitte Global Board of Directors. He has extensive From 2014 to 2018, he served as Deputy Secretary (Policy) Managing Director for Google Singapore and oversaw sales and
experience serving both multinational and local companies across in the Ministry of Defence, where he strengthened Singapore’s business development from its regional hub.
a wide spectrum of industries, specialising in financial services, international defence partnerships, led MINDEF’s longer-term
telecommunications and technology, real estate, private equity strategic planning and guided MINDEF’s strategic communications Prior to Google, Ms Flint was Principal Consultant at OgilvyOne
and manufacturing. and public engagement efforts. Asia-Pacific from 2004 to 2008, providing strategic counsel in digital
and e-commerce to Ogilvy’s flagship clients. Before that, she had
Mr Mah is currently Chairman of Netlink NBN Management Pte From 2013 to 2014, Keith was concurrently Senior Director of been in the aviation industry for 10 years, leading global digital
Ltd, the Singapore Accountancy Commission and National the Public Service Division’s PS21 Office, and Institute Director transformation and change management programmes in commerce
University of Singapore Business School Accounting Advisory of the Institute of Governance and Policy at Singapore’s Civil Service and marketing for British Airways from 1997 to 2001, and a Global
Board. He is also a board member of Capitaland Limited, Flipkart College. Keith also served in the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) Sales and Digital Marketing leader in Singapore Airlines from
Pte Ltd, Singapore Economic Development Board, Monetary as Director of the Economics and Strategy Division (2008–2010) 2001 to 2004.
Authority of Singapore and the National University of Singapore and the Foreign Economic Policy Division (2010–2013).
Board of Trustee. Ms Flint is a well-regarded speaker at industry events on topics of
digital, innovation, creativity, technology and women in the
workplace. She is on the Leadership Council of the Singapore iAB, and
recently retired from the Board of the National University Singapore
ISS. She has authored publications, including the new path to
purchase, ‘Winning the Zero Moment of Truth — Asia’.
WHO WE ARE 13

--- PAGE 14 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Ms Audrey Kuah Mr Allen Law Mr Lim Eng Hwee
Board Member Board Member Board Member
Ms Audrey Kuah is the former Executive Director, Media Practice Mr Allen Law is Chief Executive Officer of Park Hotel Group, Mr Lim Eng Hwee is Chief Executive Officer of the Urban
— Asia Pacific at Dentsu Aegis Network. As Executive Director, one of Asia Pacific’s leading hospitality companies. Under his Redevelopment Authority (URA) with effect from 1st September 2017.
Media Practice — Asia Pacific, she was responsible for the evolution leadership, Park Hotel Group expanded from a single hotel URA is Singapore’s national planning agency, responsible for the
of the business model and future capabilities. She was also Global in Hong Kong to a multinational company with a multi-property physical planning and urban development of Singapore.
Head of its first R&D Centre, where she was responsible for the portfolio spanning across 10 destinations in Asia Pacific.
development of proprietary and future forward marketing platforms Mr Lim was formerly Chief Planner and Deputy Chief Executive
that combined machine learning, artificial intelligence, cloud Demonstrating strong business acumen and leadership skills in the Officer of URA from 2009 to 2017. He has extensive experience in
technology and the deep marketing expertise of Dentsu Group. dynamic travel and tourism landscape, Allen has grown Park Hotel urban planning, urban design, implementation of land use policies
Ms Kuah was also its Chief Client Officer, Southeast Asia and former Group’s collection of brands, which comprises the luxury Grand Park, and development initiatives. He also served in the Ministry of National
Singapore CEO. the upscale Park Hotel and the midscale Destination as well Development and Ministry of Trade and Industry.
as the loyalty programme, Park Rewards. In addition, he has led Park
Ms Kuah’s expertise in marketing, digital and advertising has been Hotel Group to garner numerous awards over the years, including He served as a member on the Boards of Land Transport Authority,
deployed across industries and geographies, for more than two TTG Asia’s Best Regional Hotel Chain (2012–2017) and SkillsFuture Singapore Cooperation Enterprise and Singapore Science Centre.
decades. Ms Kuah is active in the industry and is on the Board of Employer Awards 2018. He currently sits on the Boards of Singapore Tourism Board, National
Intellectual Property Office of Singapore International. She was Environment Agency and the International Federation for Housing
also a member of the Future Economy Council Modern Services and Planning. He is also a Member of the Board Committee for
Sub-Committee. Racecourse Masterplan for Tote Board.
Ms Kuah was awarded an MBA from the University of Chicago Mr Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Planning from the University
Booth School of Business in 2007 and graduated with a B.A. from of Auckland. He also holds a Master in Public Administration from
the National University of Singapore in 1992. Harvard University and attended the Wharton Advanced
Management Program at the University of Pennsylvania.
WHO WE ARE 14

--- PAGE 15 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr Mohamad Saiful
Mr Aaron Maniam Mr Prasad Menon
Saroni
Board Member Board Member Board Member
Mr Aaron Maniam is currently Deputy Secretary (Industry and Mr Prasad R Menon is a Chemical Engineer from the Indian Institute Mr Mohamad Saiful Saroni has been a partner in PwC LLP Singapore
Information) at the Ministry of Communications and Information. of Technology, Kharagpur. He has over 45 years of diverse experience since 2012. He started in PwC as an associate in 2000 and has
From September 2014 to September 2017, Mr Maniam was Senior in some of the premier multinational and Indian companies. 20 years of experience in the audit industry, three of which were
Director (Industry) at the Ministry of Trade and Industry, where he spent on secondment to the PwC US Firm in its San Francisco office.
was responsible for coordinating economic policies and regulating Mr Menon started his career with the Imperial Chemical Industries He is also one of the Firm’s partner contacts as it relates to US
the manufacturing, services and tourism sectors, as well as (ICI) and served for 20 years, followed by another 11 years at Nagarjuna Accounting and Auditing matters as well as US-bound cross border
overseeing long-term economic transformation. Group. In October 2000, Mr Menon took over as Managing Director of security transactions. Saiful’s areas of specialty are in the Energy,
Tata Chemicals and in October 2006, he took over as Managing Utilities and Mining as well as Technology and Transport sectors.
Mr Maniam has held various positions in the Civil Service, including Director of Tata Power, the largest integrated private power utility in He is actively involved in the audits of SEC registrants.
postings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the Strategic Policy Office India. He has championed sustainability as a key strategic initiative in
and Centre for Strategic Futures in the Public Service Division; the organisation. Mr Saroni also sits on the Boards of Mercy Relief, Building and
and the Civil Service College. He is a member of the Board of Construction Authority and Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association.
Governors of Raffles Institution and the World Economic Forum’s Mr Menon subsequently served on several Tata Boards, including He is also a member of M3 Advisory Council, as well as the Woodlands
Global Future Council on Agile Governance. being the first Chairman of Tata-Singapore Airlines in India. Citizens’ Consultative Committee.
He has a deep interest in the NGO/Development areas, and has
been associated with organisations in the fields of environment, He graduated with a Bachelor of Accountancy from Nanyang
sustainability, wildlife conservation and academia. Technological University (Honours). He is a member of ISCA,
Mr Menon currently serves as Independent Director on as well as a member of the American Institute of Certified Public
the Boards of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and the Sanmar Group. Accountants.
WHO WE ARE 15

--- PAGE 16 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr Ravi Thakran Ms Thien Kwee Eng Mrs Wong Ai Ai
Board Member Board Member Board Member
Mr Ravi Thakran has over 30 years of strategic leadership and Ms Thien Kwee Eng assumed the appointment of Chief Executive Officer of Mrs Wong Ai Ai is recognised as one of Baker McKenzie’s most
investment experience in the aspirational and luxury goods Sentosa Development Corporation (SDC) on 1 June 2020. distinguished lawyers, with a career that spans from leading a range
industry. of landmark transactions for blue-chip clients, to global management
Prior to that, Kwee Eng was Executive Vice President of the Singapore and leadership roles at the highest levels of the Firm, including
Mr Ravi Thakran currently serves as Group Chairman of LVMH South Economic Development Board (EDB) overseeing EDB’s global customer serving as a member of the Global Executive Committee and Chair of
and South East Asia, Australia/New Zealand and Middle East. experience, marketing & public affairs and investment facilitation activities. the Asia Pacific Region.
Kwee Eng has held leadership roles in investment promotion and industry
He is also the founder of L Capital Asia (now L Catterton Asia) in development across various sectors during her time in EDB, including As a transactional lawyer, Mrs Wong has been recognised as a leading
2009, which went on to become the largest consumer focused Consumer and Lifestyle businesses, Health and Wellness as well as Infocomm individual and eminent practitioner for Corporate/M&A matters by
growth investor in Asia. and Media. She has also led corporate-wide initiatives to catalyse new business publications including Chambers Asia Pacific, Legal 500 Asia Pacific
creation and innovation in large corporations. and IFLR1000.
Since its foundation, the fund has invested in over 35 high growth
brands in Asia, five of which have achieved S$1 billion in annual From 2000 to 2001, Kwee Eng was Business Development Director of Outside of Baker McKenzie, Mrs Wong is Board Director at the
revenues as of December 2019. Asiacontent.com’s business in China. She also served as First Secretary Singapore Tourism Board and Director of Singapore Tyler Print
(Trade and Industry) at the Embassy of Singapore in Beijing from 2001 to 2004 Institute (STPI). She is also a strong advocate for, and former
and was responsible for promoting Singapore-China trade and industry Chairman of, the Yellow Ribbon Fund.
relations.
Mrs Wong is one of a small number of Singaporeans appointed to the
Kwee Eng serves on the Board of the Singapore Food Agency, DesignSingapore role of Justice of the Peace, a role awarded to “outstanding
Council and Women’s Forum Asia. In 2017, she was conferred the Public Singaporeans who have made significant contributions in their
Administration Medal (Silver). Kwee Eng graduated from the National University professions, the public service, social services and the community at
of Singapore with a Bachelor of Social Sciences in Economics. large”.
WHO WE ARE 16

--- PAGE 17 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Mr Keith Tan Ms Jeannie Lim Mr Yap Chin Siang Mr Chang Chee Pey Ms Lynette Pang Mr Poh Chi Chuan
Chief Executive Assistant Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Assistant Chief Assistant Chief Executive Acting Chief Technology
Policy & Planning Group Corporate Group & Executive Marketing Group Officer & QSM
Experience Development International Group Technology
Group Transformation Group
*Mr Poh Chi Chuan was appointed Acting Chief Technology Officer & QSM on 23 September 2020.
WHO WE ARE 17

--- PAGE 18 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
CORPORATE GROUP
Ms Dong Limin Ms Chew Chien Way Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Ong Siew Hwee Mr Evan Koh Ms Geraldine Yeo
Director Director Deputy Chief Executive Director Director Principal Specialist
Finance Human Resources & Corporate Group & Experience Compliance & Legal (Learning)
Organisation Development Development Group Corporate Services
WHO WE ARE 18

--- PAGE 19 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
MARKETING GROUP
Ms Lim Shoo Ling Ms Lilian Chee Ms Choo Huei Miin Ms Lynette Pang Mr Terrence Voon Ms Jacqueline Ng
Director Director Director Assistant Chief Executive Director Director
Brand Industry Marketing Digital & Content Marketing Group Communications & Marketing Partnerships
Marketing Capability & Planning
WHO WE ARE 19

--- PAGE 20 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
EXPERIENCE DEVELOPMENT GROUP
Ms Jean Ng Dr Edward Koh Ms Ranita Sundramoorthy Mr Yap Chin Siang Ms Serene Tan Mr Andrew Phua Ms Ong Ling Lee
Executive Director Executive Director Director Deputy Chief Executive Director Executive Director Director
Attractions, Conventions, Meetings Retail & Dining Corporate Group & Arts & Cultural Exhibitions & Sports
Entertainment & & Incentive Travel Experience Development Precincts Conferences
Tourism Concept Group
Development
WHO WE ARE 20

--- PAGE 21 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
POLICY & PLANNING GROUP
Ms Cherie Lee Mr Chew Tiong Heng Ms Tan Yen Nee Ms Jeannie Lim Mr Kenneth Lim Ms Annie Chang
Director Executive Director Director Assistant Chief Director Director
Strategic Planning Infrastructure Planning Hotel & Sector Executive Travel Agents Cruise
& Incentive Policy & Management Manpower Policy & Planning Group & Tourist Guides
WHO WE ARE 21

--- PAGE 22 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFORMATION GROUP
Ms Ong Huey Hong Ms Lim Pei Shan Ms Karen Ann Leong Mr Poh Chi Chuan Ms Lim Leh Hoon Ms Shameem Mustaffa Ms Goh Kershing
Executive Director Director Chief Acting Chief Technology Director & Agency Chief Data Officer Senior Vice President
Industry Technology Visitor Experience The Collaboratory Officer & QSM Chief Information Strategic Partnerships &
Transformation Technology Security Officer Alliances
Transformation Group Information Services
*Ms Lim Leh Hoon was appointed Director, Information Services on 1 October 2020.
*Ms Serene Fong was appointed Covering Director, Data Science and Analytics on 1 October 2020.
*The former Industry Data Transformation was renamed Industry Technology Transformation on 1 October 2020.
WHO WE ARE 22

--- PAGE 23 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
INTERNATIONAL GROUP
Mr Chang Chee Pey Ms Carrie Kwik Mr Soo Siew Keong Mr Oliver Chong
Assistant Chief Executive Executive Director Director Executive Director
International Group Europe Trade Engagement International Relations,
& New Markets Market Planning & Oceania
WHO WE ARE 23

--- PAGE 24 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS GROUPS
INTERNATIONAL GROUP
Mr G B Srithar Ms Juliana Kua Mr Markus Tan Ms Rachel Loh Mr John Gregory Conceicao
Regional Director Chief Representative Regional Director Regional Director Executive Director
India, Middle East & Executive Director North Asia Americas Southeast Asia
& South Asia Greater China
WHO WE ARE 24

--- PAGE 25 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
PERFORMANCE
AND INITIATIVES
2019-2020
PERFORMANCE AND INITIATIVES 2019-2020 25

--- PAGE 26 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
TOURISM SECTOR
PERFORMANCE 2019
Overview
2019 was our strongest year yet. In terms of S$27.7b
numbers, Tourism Receipts (TR) rose by 2.8%
while Visitor Arrivals (VA) saw an increase of S$26.9b
3.3%, resulting in our fourth consecutive year of S$26.8b
growth. 19.1 million international visitors brought S$25.7b
in a total of S$27.7 billion with some of our top
S$21.8b
markets hitting their new respective highs. The
overall upward trend reflects our core tourism
industries at work and that Singapore is choice
destination for many.
19.1m
Tourism Receipts
18.5m
17.4m
16.4m
15.2m
International Visitor Arrivals
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
PERFORMANCE AND INITIATIVES 2019-2020 26

--- PAGE 27 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
TOURISM RECEIPTS BY
MAJOR COMPONENTS
While Accommodation and Food & January to December 2019
Beverage experienced a slight decline,
visitors generally spent more on
Shopping (+5%), Sightseeing, % SHARE OF TOURISM
Entertainment & Gaming (+2%) and TOURISM RECEIPTS RECEIPTS 2019 % CHANGE VS 2018
Other TR Components (+8%).
SHOPPING
S$5.6b 20% +5%
ACCOMMODATION
S$5.5b 20% -2%
FOOD & BEVERAGE S$2.5b 9% -4%
SIGHTSEEING,
ENTERTAINMENT & GAMING S$6.0b 22% +2%
OTHER S$8.0b 29% +8%
TR COMPONENTS
Source: SG Arrival Cards and Overseas Visitor Survey
Notes:
1. Sightseeing, Entertainment & Gaming includes entrance fees to attractions and nightspots, expenditure on day-tours, leisure events
and entertainment at the Integrated Resorts.
2. Other TR components include expenditure on airfares on Singapore-based carriers, port taxes, local transportation, business,
medical, education and transit/transfer visitors.
PERFORMANCE AND INITIATIVES 2019-2020 27

--- PAGE 28 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
TOURISM RECEIPTS BY MAJOR COMPONENTS,
TOP 10 MARKETS
Our top two markets — Mainland China and January to December 2019 TR*
Indonesia — hit record Tourism Receipts, coming
in at S$4,124m (+5%) and S$3,074m (+8%)
TR % CHANGE VA % CHANGE
respectively. Despite seeing a dip, India VS 2018 VS 2018 2019 TR
contributed S$1,624m in TR. Together, they make
up the top three markets, accounting for nearly +5% +6% MAINLAND CHINA 49% 17% 6% 28% S$4,124m
41% of total TR in 2019. The top 10 markets
remain the same as previous year, with +8% +3% INDONESIA 30% 15% 8% 47% S$3,704m
Visitor Arrivals seeing a general increase.
-7% -2% INDIA 15% 35% 14% 36% S$1,624m
+3% +3% AUSTRALIA 12% 31% 12% 45% S$1,343m
+6% +7% JAPAN 13% 34% 9% 43% S$1,162m
SHOPPING
+21% +13% USA 11% 40% 14% 36% S$885m
-11% -3% MALAYSIA 24% 20% 12% 44% S$733m
ACCOMMODATION
+6% +7% PHILIPPINES 24% 28% 17% 32% S$721m
FOOD & BEVERAGE +2% +3% SOUTH KOREA 14% 36% 13% 37% S$675m
-1% 0% VIETNAM 37% 20% 10% 33% S$668m
OTHER TR
COMPONENTS
Notes:
1. Other TR components include expenditure on airfares on Singapore-based carriers, port taxes, local transportation, business, medical, education
and transit/transfer visitors.
Source: Overseas Visitor Survey 2. *Sightseeing, Entertainment & Gaming has been excluded in the country analysis due to commercial sensitivity of information.
PERFORMANCE AND INITIATIVES 2019-2020 28

--- PAGE 29 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
MARKETING
SINGAPORE
TO THE WORLD
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 29

--- PAGE 30 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
EVER INNOVATING, EVER TRANSFORMING,
EVER ENGAGING — SINGAPORE
In 2019, STB supported a wide range of industry efforts to enhance Singapore’s destination attractiveness in the medium to long term. In the face of regional
and global competition, STB’s international offices continued to pursue innovative ways to engage target audiences around the world.
ASEAN Tourism
The ASEAN Tourism Forum (ATF) 2020 was
held from 12 to 16 January 2020 in Brunei
Darussalam with the theme:
ASEAN – Together Towards a New Generation
of Travel. The ATF welcomed 263 exhibitors,
160 international buyers, and 109 domestic
and international media. The new ASEAN
Tourism website (visitsoutheastasia.travel)
was also launched to serve as an integrated
one-stop platform to promote Southeast Asia’s
diverse tourism offerings, events and activities.
Emerging Markets
2019 saw continued efforts to reach out to
new and emerging markets such as Myanmar
and Bangladesh. In February 2020,
the annual Singapore Festival in Myanmar
took the form of a garden party for its 2020
edition, on the picturesque grounds of the
Chin Tsong Palace, a heritage site in Yangon
with a rich and colourful history.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 30

--- PAGE 31 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Australia
STB Oceania launched Taste Obsession
Overall reach: > 118 mil
Singapore in March 2020, to introduce zi char
to Australians as an authentic Singaporean
dining concept. One of the highlights was
1,293 Foodies in
the chef collaboration between Sydney’s
attendance
Brent Savage of Cirrus Dining and Singapore’s
Wayne Liew from Keng Eng Kee Seafood.
The chefs jointly presented a nine-course Earned media coverage
degustation menu comprising 16 dishes, reach: > 48 mil
including a co-created special collaboration
dish inspired by Singapore. Comprising a Social media reach:
media-trade evening and three consumer Cirrus Dining > 873,000;
nights, the event was a success with the VisitSingapore FB >
consumer events selling out within hours. 3,035,000
Cirrus Dining had planned a further five-week
extension to April, creating 14 new
Out-of-Home (OOH)
Singapore-inspired dishes just for the reach: > 68 mil
extension menu. Unfortunately, the event
had to end prematurely due to COVID-19.
Festival-goers indulged in delicious dishes Singapore is often an aspirational city that
done picnic-style by top Myanmar and companies like to send their top performers
Singapore chefs, while enjoying live music to. Incentive travel therefore presents an
by acoustic bands and DJs. Zouk DJs also important opportunity to attract new markets.
headlined a sold-out after-party at Myst Club. In Singapore Incentives & Rewards (INSPIRE)
2.0 was launched in Dhaka on 4 December
The annual Singapore Myanmar Incentive 2019 to an audience of large enterprises,
Travel Forum (SMIF) took place on leading SMEs and top travel agents. Singapore
14 September 2019 with approximately 120 welcomed the first INSPIRE group from Dhaka
attendees from Myanmar travel intermediaries in March 2020.
and corporates, making this third edition of
the event the most subscribed one thus far.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 31

--- PAGE 32 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Mainland China
In Mainland China, STB and the Singapore showcase of various Singapore experiences,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised a from Dragon Boating and a Kampung Gelam
Peranakan Festival in Chengdu with the food tour, to a tour of Sungei Buloh and
Chengdu Municipal Foreign Affairs Office. a graffiti workshop. 92 per cent of Chinese
The festival, based on the theme of “new and MICE intermediaries shared that
inspiration from tradition (以旧换新)”, featured they would include the Singapore
a Peranakan fashion show including an experiences in future itineraries and
elaborate wedding procession, interactive 83 per cent of the Singapore stakeholders felt
Peranakan workshops for families and a that the event met their objectives to engage
four-week exhibition at the Chengdu Museum. potential buyers and develop business leads.
The exhibition showcased traditional
Peranakan items from The Intan, juxtaposed STB also collaborated with the Industrial and
with new Peranakan-inspired products from Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) to launch a
brands such as Onlewo and Eden+Elie. pan-China Premium Partners Scheme for visa
The event generated 150 million impressions. applications in 2019. The partnership allowed
STB to engage our target audience segments
by leveraging ICBC’s vast network across
China and their marketing channels.
ICBC also took the opportunity to market
I GO Singapore, a platform featuring
Singapore merchants across various China, targeted at Early Careers. Apart from STB also introduced Singapore elements into
categories such as F&B, hotel, retail and 不不不 (NoNoNo) travel tips anchored by four Tencent QQ’s new 3D Limixiu game that
tourism. brand personalities, each representing a key allowed users to create customised 3D avatars
Passion Tribe, a web-variety series was in the application Kapu. These elements
In September, STB launched the Encounter co-developed with celebrity influencer included a Peranakan outfit, virtual
the Unexpected 不不不不期而遇 campaign in Papi酱 (Jiang). Audiences could select household items and photo backgrounds
STB partnered SDC and CAG to organise the alternate scenarios and discover four different such as a Vespa scooter, chilli crab, Orchard
5th China MICE Conference to showcase the endings. The campaign garnered more than Road and Merlion Park. The Peranakan outfit
diversity of MICE offerings in Singapore. 420 million impressions and 100 million video was used more than 5.5 million times, while
Held in Singapore for the first time, the views. As part of the campaign, STB also Merli was the most popular item with
Conference was attended by 80 Chinese MICE collaborated with Douyin and airline partners, 33 per cent of users incorporating Merli into
intermediaries, members of the media and generating 20 million views for ad buys, and their virtual house designs. Close to 2 million
speakers, as well as representatives from 29 million views for 12 short-form destination users also placed their 3D avatars against the
73 Singapore companies. In addition to videos. Singapore backgrounds to create images,
sharing by industry experts, a business mart, with 23 per cent further sharing their
networking and gala dinners, there was a creations on Tencent’s social platforms.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 32

--- PAGE 33 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Dubai Eastern Europe Germany
Visitor arrivals from the United Arab Emirates STB launched a digital marketing campaign to Visitor arrivals from Germany hit a new record
(UAE) grew by 6.9 per cent from January to promote travelling to Singapore during the high of 380,000 in 2019, a growth of
December 2019, compared to the previous winter months. The campaign reached more 6.7 per cent driven by an increase in cruise
year, and joint partnerships played a key role than 9.8 million viewers and helped contribute traffic.
in raising travel interest in Singapore. to the 17 per cent increase in Russian visitor
STB delivered a range of key partnerships out arrivals between October 2019 and February STB also launched a series of social media
of the UAE in 2019, with an emphasis on 2020. A Russian section on the VisitSingapore campaigns, leveraging the reach of
driving conversions in Singapore’s leisure and website was also launched to provide a influencers to engage a diverse range of
MICE space. STB’s Let’s Go Singapore complete user experience. Passion Tribes amongst the German
campaign, in partnership with Orient Travel, audience. STB partnered with Scoot on a
saw 14 per cent incremental bookings to Poland continues to be an important campaign in March targeting Socialisers in
Singapore via Orient Travel from April to June emerging market for STB Europe. Visitor Berlin, showcasing Singapore’s vibrant
2019 compared with January to March 2019. arrivals from Poland grew by 53.6 per cent in entertainment scene. STB also launched
The partnership with Orient Travel also 2019. To continually engage the Poles, STB a pan-European social media campaign
included the first fully dedicated Arabic radio launched a Polish-language Facebook page in targeted at Foodies and Action Seekers in
campaign targeting Emiratis and Arab October 2019, to serve as an important and an partnership with Singapore Airlines.
travellers from the UAE. always-on touchpoint for the Poles. The entire campaign garnered excellent
traction across six European markets, and
STB’s continuing partnership with dnata achieved a reach of more than 8.5 million,
Travel brought in new partners like Emirates and approximately 700,000 engagements.
NBD Bank and Emaar Gift Card and extended
dnata’s offers to their respective customer
databases. An online digital campaign with
Seera Travel resulted in a 37 per cent increase
in bookings to Singapore, compared with the
same period in 2018.
Dubai Eastern Europe Germany
VA between October
VA grew by 6.9%
2019 and February 2020 VA increased
from January to
Russia: 17% increase by 6.7%
December 2019
Poland: 53% increase
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 33

--- PAGE 34 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
India
STB India leveraged the world of Partnering with Star Vijay TV, STB secured In the meantime, Foodies were treated to a Zomaland@Home, featuring video content of
entertainment to promote Singapore to the six Singapore-based half-hour episodes on series of videos with celebrity chef Saransh Singapore talents like chefs, DJs, stand-up
Indian market. A partnership with Thomas Raja Rani, a daily soap opera popular with Goila presenting Singapore’s street food, comedians, mixologist and rap artistes.
Cook India Limited on Tarakh Mehta Ka Olta Tamil-speaking audiences. The episodes bars and nightclubs, and homegrown The content generated over 1 million views.
Chasma (TMKOC) saw the cast and crew of showcased and reinforced Singapore’s many restaurants. The videos, part of STB’s
the longest-running family comedy show in offerings targeting the Action Seeker, Foodie, collaboration with VOOT India, received For the business segment, STB formed a
the history of Indian television enjoying Socialiser and Collector Passion Tribes, 20 million impressions. VOOT India also media partnership with the India Today
Gardens by the Bay, Sentosa, Little India, generating over 47 million impressions. launched an extensive food guide on its app. Group, leveraging its corporate database
Chinatown and Madame Tussauds. They also for outreach and lead generation.
enjoyed outdoor experiences like the Skyline To enable viewers to see Singapore in a new Singapore’s culinary offerings continued to be The partnership included the curation and
Luge and Skyride, indoor skydiving at iFly light, STB launched a seven-part travel web featured prominently when STB partnered execution of MICE Leaders Connect in Delhi in
Singapore, and bungee jumping at AJ series titled Trails 2 Passion — Singapore Zomato for its second edition of Zomaland. February 2020, attracting more than 100
Hackett. Redefined with Tripoto, one of the fastest Leveraging Zomato’s extensive consumer corporate attendees.
growing global travel communities. Starring reach and covering nine cities over five
two well-known personalities in India’s digital months (November 2019 to March 2020), the With India as one of Singapore’s top cruise
space, Naveen Kasturia and Veer Rajwant campaign increased our destination branding source markets, STB organised a Cruise
Singh, the series was themed around STB’s and showcased our vibrant food scene. Forum together with TravTalk, a leading travel
Passion Tribes, and presented the duo’s travel Foodies across cities had the opportunity to publication in India. Themed Growing Cruise
12 mil ++ trails in Singapore. The hilarious web series relish specially-curated Singaporean dishes Connections, Achieving Together!, the forum
achieved a reach of around 27 million viewers, from Nasi and Mee, a popular restaurant chain was supported by Cruise Lines International
with about 460,000 engagements. The video in India specialising in Singapore cuisine with Association (CLIA), who also shared insights
series even won a gold award in the travel outlets in Bangalore, Chennai and Mumbai. into India’s cruise landscape.
Total organic impressions
and leisure category of the DIGIXX Awards. Additionally, consumers from Delhi and
TMKOC (7-episode series)
Hyderabad also got a chance to enjoy our
STB also teamed up with legendary Indian world-famous soya chicken rice cooked by
musicians, Dr KJ Yesudas and Dr SP Michelin Star Hawker Chan himself. Zomaland
Balasubramanyam, who visited iconic attracted over 180,000 visitors across eight
attractions like Jewel Changi Airport, cities. Due to COVID-19, the finale event in
Resorts World Sentosa and the Art Science Mumbai was unable to proceed. Instead,
Museum. The Voice of Legends video the event took on an innovative twist through
campaign saw 25 million impressions. a digital initiative with Zomato for
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 34

--- PAGE 35 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Indonesia
STB and Traveloka, Southeast Asia’s largest Traveloka, as well as their consumer-facing To engage the Passion Tribes amongst our
technology company in the travel and platform GoTix, part of Gojek’s ecosystem and Indonesian audience, STB Indonesia
lifestyle industry, signed a Memorandum of leading provider of on-demand mobile and partnered Kumparan, one of the largest
Cooperation (MoC) to promote Singapore as a digital payment services in Southeast Asia. lifestyle and content portals in Indonesia
preferred destination for visitors from five Gojek Indonesia was also our partner for a film with 21 million active users, to produce a
major Southeast Asian markets: Indonesia, about three Gojek drivers who pursued their three-episode reality series that brought
Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and passions in Singapore. The film attracted over out the authentic passion stories of three
Vietnam. The strategic partnership has seen 7.28 million views. influencers — a Foodie, Socialiser and
six tactical campaigns across Indonesia, Collector. In addition, Singapore’s culinary
Thailand and Vietnam so far. STB Indonesia STB reached out to the overseas student travel scene was the focus of a partnership with
then collaborated with Traveloka Xperience to segment by participating in DBL Indonesia’s Indonesian media company Jawa Pos.
launch the Let’s Go Around Singapore Lah! annual Youth Convention, the largest student STB participated in the Singapore-themed
travel booklet to encourage tourists to convention in East Java. With approximately Kepo Foodfiesta at the Galaxy Mall in
discover more of Singapore’s hidden gems, 5,000 student participants from 125 schools Surabaya, and supported the Culinary Awards with Muslim travellers, to help
popular attractions, and unique experiences. and a crowd of over 120,000, the 10-day event in Pakuwon Mall, where Singapore’s Fat Singapore-based travel trade have a better
was a good platform to share about the Papas presented a cooking demo of their understanding of the Muslim travel segment.
Another MoC with LOKET (GoTix), an event and various enrichment programmes in Singapore. famous halal double cheeseburgers. Panellists from Indonesia, Malaysia and
entertainment technology company, helped Singaporean stakeholders including RWS, Singapore also exchanged insights on this
STB further promote Singapore events, Whizz Kidz Pte Ltd., and Passion Made Muslim lifestyle portal Dream.co.id, segment.
experiences and attractions to Indonesian Possible brand personality Mark Ong Have Halal Will Travel (HHWT) was another
travellers. The partnership tapped on LOKET’s conducted enrichment and passion-themed important partner for STB to feature To encourage incentive travel to Singapore,
largest B2B event platform supplying ticket workshops such as Lego robotics and shoe experiences for Muslim travellers, through a STB Indonesia launched the new INSPIRE
inventory to OTAs and e-commerce players like design. five-episode series about a Muslim female Global scheme in Jakarta and Surabaya.
writer who gains new inspiration and ideas STB also organised BTMICE networking
while exploring Singapore. sessions and recognised top MICE travel
agents, Antavaya, Dwidaya, Panorama,
To engage the travel trade, STB organised Smailing Tour, Pygma Tour and Nusantara
B2B networking sessions in five secondary Tour, for their contributions.
Indonesian cities (Surabaya, Bandung, Medan,
Balikpapan and Batam) to facilitate business With the rising demand for cruising amongst
between Singapore industry partners and Indonesians, STB Indonesia conducted
Indonesian trade. Trade partners in Singapore workshops for top cruise agents in Jakarta
were just as important — at the 2019 Tourism and Surabaya, introducing the Cruise
Industry Conference, STB Indonesia organised Development Fund (CDF) to incentivise travel
a Muslim Travel Panel Discussion to share agents to promote pre- and post-cruise
findings arising from focus group discussions experiences in Singapore.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 35

--- PAGE 36 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Japan Korea
STB Japan secured the Detective Conan 2019 cashback for children was also offered After signing an MoC with the Busan At Haeundae beach, singers Sam Kim and
movie, The Fist of Blue Sapphire, to be to drive the Family segment. Metropolitan City government in February 2019 Jung Seung Hwan entertained the audience
exclusively set in Singapore, making it the • SIA Japan: For flights departing Japan, to mutually intensify tourism promotions, STB with their vocals and their personal memories
first time this film series went out of Japan in passengers were given Detective Korea organised a festival called Summer with from previous trips to Singapore. Famed
its 23-year history. The movie showcased Conan-themed in-flight amenities Singapore in Busan (SUMMSING in Busan). YouTuber Changhyun continued the musical
some of Singapore’s most well-known sights and mochi ice-cream with a QR code It took place across various venues in Haeundae, vibes on the second day with a crowd-pulling
such as Marina Bay Sands, Gardens by the on its wrapper to entice them to visit key Busan from 8 to 11 August 2019, including street singing competition, which was also
Bay, Singapore Flyer, the Merlion, Chinatown attractions in Singapore. They could also Haeundae Beach, a popular summer destination live-streamed to over 6,700 viewers.
and Haji Lane. The movie was the #1 movie in watch past Detective Conan movies on amongst Korean domestic travellers and Singapore nightlife was showcased at Get All
Japan in the first half of 2019, and closed with KrisWorld, the in-flight entertainment international tourists. The largest consumer Right, an up-and-coming performing lounge
S$120 million in box office sales and over system. event ever organised by STB in South Korea, the bar in Busan, hosting Zouk Singapore
7.16 million cinema-goers. To drive visitorship • Chinatown stakeholders: STB also festival attracted close to 9,000 participants and DJ LeNERD and Native mixologist Leon Tan.
to Singapore and its places of interest worked with Chinatown stakeholders in generated 23,000 impressions and over 9,000
amongst fans, STB Japan worked with various Singapore, such as mural artist Yip Yew blog views on STB’s social media channels.
partners for Detective Conan-themed Chong and traditional Chinese medicine
offerings: shop owner Thye Shan Medical Hall,
to create a Detective Conan mural.
• HIS: An exclusive package bringing Located along Chinatown Food Street,
visitors to locations featured in the the mural has injected greater
movie in a shuttle bus wrapped with vibrancy into the precinct, attracting
Detective Conan creatives and in-bus fans from around the world.
guiding recorded by Conan’s actual
voice cast. A passport application fee STB Japan partnered with Seijo Ishii,
an upscale supermarket chain in Japan,
to showcase the diversity of Singapore’s local
cuisines beyond chicken rice and chilli crab.
Seijo Ishii developed 50 Singapore-inspired
F&B products, including eight new bento
boxes and desserts, eight Singapore-flavoured
snacks, and 12 grocery products. It then held
a two-and-a-half-month long Singapore Food
Fair at its 173 outlets and seven restaurants,
which became the largest food fair it has
ever held in terms of sales volume. Over
649,000 items were sold, including more
than 170,000 Singapore-inspired bento boxes.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 36

--- PAGE 37 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Malaysia & Brunei
Creative cultural exchange was the inspiration showcasing Singapore’s culture along with The Unknown World art exhibition,
behind STB Malaysia’s collaboration with the key Singaporean brand partners such as STB, including the Atypical Singapore showcase
Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth Singapore Airlines, Singapore Grand Prix, and a collaborative mural between
(MCCY) and Malaysia’s Ministry of Tourism, Golden Duck snacks, Brewlander Beer, Jumbo well-known Singapore and Thai artists
Arts and Culture (MOTAC). Part of Seafood and Tiger Beer. The festival recorded (Samantha Lo a.k.a SKL0 and Rukkit
Urbanscapes, Kuala Lumpur’s longest creative 300,000 visitors over five days. Kuanhawate), was organised in the heart of
arts festival, URBN.SENI — which means Bangkok, at the Bangkok Art and Culture
‘urban art’ — saw the creative communities STB’s participation was focused on the Centre. The collaborative mural was then
of both Malaysia and Singapore sharing Peranakan culture to raise awareness of brought to Central Clarke Quay in Singapore
cross-cultural inspirations through music, Singapore’s multi-culturalism and in late 2019.
visual arts, film, theatre, food & beverage and experiences in the Joo Chiat/Katong precinct.
retail. The audience enjoyed music by STB also partnered Kim Choo Kueh Chang for Through the eyes of two leading influencers,
Singapore’s Yung Raja, Alif and Charlie Lim, an experiential booth where visitors could be MayyR and Pimtha, Singapore was
along with homegrown feature film styled as Babas and Nyonyas in traditional re-introduced to the Thai audience
Zombiepura which was screened together wear, and watch a Peranakan culture and showcasing the newest addition to the retail
with Malaysia’s Bunohan. Naiise Singapore fashion talk by Kim Choo’s third-generation scene, Design Orchard, as well as quirky and
helmed a Makers’ Market, curating 20 brands business owner Edmond Wong and his unique finds in Tiong Bahru and the
from Malaysia and Singapore; Nutmeg & brother, Nyonya Kebaya designer Raymond Katong-Joo Chiat area. There were also
Clove, Chef Nicholas Scorpion and PPP Coffee Wong. promotions with Singapore malls and
supplied well-received food and drinks Krungthai credit cards to drive awareness of
together with Malaysia’s Coley, The Salted Singapore’s retail offerings.
Thailand
Chef and the Quarters.
Singapore was also presented through the
Tourism receipts from Thailand grew lens of famous Thai photographers including
Taiwan
more than 10 per cent to S$603 million in self-taught abstract photographer and
2019. Reaching 22 million people across motorbike taxi rider, Phichai Kaewvichit,
STB partnered DBS Taiwan for the bank’s different media platforms, STB’s campaigns encouraging Thai visitors to seek new angles
inaugural Singapore Festival carnival in sought to introduce a different aspect of and interesting unknown spots in Singapore.
Taiwan, at Taipei’s key retail and Singapore to Thai consumers, and encourage
entertainment district. The festival aimed to them to keep visiting Singapore.
build brand awareness for DBS in Taiwan by
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 37

--- PAGE 38 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
UK & France
Commemorating Singapore’s bicentennial Singapore. This project targeted our key future of cultural and creative industries are
year, STB London organised its largest ever market segments, the active silvers and being shaped, holding annual summits in
consumer campaign Singapore: Where established careers, to inspire them to visit Sydney and London. As part of the
Explorers Meet, at Finsbury Avenue Square, Singapore to fulfil their explorer passions. partnership, Honor Harger, Executive Director
London. Attracting 7,800 visitors, the This project was also aptly timed alongside of ArtScience Museum and Boon Gee Ng,
three-day event was supported by a series of Singapore’s Bicentennial year, which allowed Senior Director of Gardens by the Bay,
trade campaigns with four tour operators to us to showcase our strong UK-Singapore links. delivered keynote presentations on
encourage the British to visit Singapore The expedition departed Singapore on Singapore’s innovations. It also presented an
during our bicentennial year. 25 August 2019 and successfully arrived in opportunity to raise awareness, among the
London 112 days later on 14 December 2019. summit delegates, of the inaugural REMIX
STB London also supported The Last Overland Singapore Summit to be held in 2021.
— a Singapore-London land expedition STB London also partnered the REMIX
inspired by the 1955 Oxford Cambridge London Summit from 27 to 28 January 2020.
Far-Eastern Expedition from London to Established in 2012, REMIX looks at how the
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 38

--- PAGE 39 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
United States Vietnam
2019 was the US’ third straight year of was headlined by fitness entrepreneur Executives (ASAE), the largest membership In 2019, visitors from Vietnam spent
record-setting visitor arrivals, achieving Liv Lo Golding. Bumble’s entry into Singapore organisation of association executives across S$248 million on shopping in Singapore,
a high of 729,260 visitors. The US also had the reinforced the city’s status as a business the US and in nearly 50 countries around the which was the second highest of all inbound
highest growth percentage in visitor arrivals connector hub, while also positioning world, on a two-year global partnership to markets to Singapore, after China. STB
(13 per cent) and fastest growth percentage Singapore as an aspirational destination for strengthen STB’s engagement with the Vietnam launched a campaign to appeal
in tourism receipts (21 per cent) out of the female millennial travellers. Singapore was Association industry. The INSPIRE Global to the Collector Passion Tribe and drive
top 15 markets. also the kick-off destination for Bumble’s Incentive Scheme, targeted at international conversion for the year-end period. The first
inaugural Global Connector Bees’ world tour. meeting organisers, was launched at IMEX phase took place from June to August 2019,
The hosts of iHeart’s top morning radio shows The campaign saw over 200,000 likes and Americas – the region’s largest exhibition organised in conjunction with the Great
in Los Angeles (On Air with Ryan Seacrest) 2,000 comments over a five-day period in for incentive travel, meetings and events. Singapore Sale. Two influencers, Gia Dinh
and New York (Elvis Duran and The Morning Singapore. This platform also served as the culmination Cam Cam and Si Thanh, with reach to
Show) broadcasted live from Singapore and of the second successful edition of STB’s Their Families with Young Kids and the Early
upon their return to the US. The iHeartMedia STB and restaurant discovery platform Passion Made Your Event Possible campaign Careers segment respectively, created video
campaign hit close to 80 million impressions. The Infatuation launched the Ultimate with Northstar Meetings Group. logs on various shopping locations and
The North American media and trade were EEEEEATS Singapore campaign to position experiences. Partnerships with six shopping
also treated to Crazy Rich Singapore cocktail Singapore as the ultimate Foodie destination malls in Singapore also provided shopping
parties at Virtuoso Travel Week, an annual to The Infatuation’s 5-million strong vouchers for Vietnamese travellers. By the end
meeting for luxury travel agents, and in community of passionate millennial Foodies. of the campaign in August 2019, the videos
Seattle to celebrate Singapore Airlines’ Leveraging The Infatuation’s unique ability to had attracted over 3.1 million views.
non-stop flight launch from Seattle in highlight food through the lens of culture, The second phase took place from November
September 2019. our ongoing campaign launched in January 2019 to January 2020, highlighting the
2020 with a compelling Singapore food guide year-end festive season shopping period.
STB also embarked on a unique brand crafted by The Infatuation and amplified Vlogs by friends Ninh Tito & Bedaulbe and
partnership with Bumble. Bumble, the on the brand’s popular online channels. husband-and-wife duo Giang Oi & Anh Ban
female-first social networking application Than garnered over 2.1 million views,
with over 100 million users, launched its With MICE business travellers being one of with a further 2.6 million fans on social media
professional networking Bizz mode in STB’s key target segments, STB collaborated channels and more than 46,000
Singapore in January 2020. The event launch with the American Society of Association engagements.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 39

--- PAGE 40 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
PARTNERING FOR SUCCESS
STB continued to collaborate with innovative partners, going beyond the realms of tourism to reach new audiences in new ways.
The Unexpected Journeys campaign was Outcomes:
launched in September 2019 in partnership
with Singapore Airlines (SIA). This followed >32,000,000
the success of the SIA in-flight safety video audience reach
that was jointly produced by STB and SIA in
2017. The three-part film series spotlights
some of the most interesting yet >146,000
misunderstood places on earth, namely video views
Bland, New South Wales, Australia; Dull,
Perthshire, Scotland; and Boring, Oregon,
United States of America. The bold and >S$500,000
in PR value
creative concept traced the journey of
Singaporean comedian-cum-host Rishi
Budhrani and his adventures with locals from
Brand lift in all three
these cities, who were eventually flown to
target markets,
Singapore by SIA.
most notably the US
Best Picture and
Key objectives: Best TV Series
To achieve greater brand salience and 2019 Los Angeles Film
awareness for the two iconic Singaporean Awards
brands; showcase a varied range of
choices to suit every traveller; and
spotlight local talents and attractions that
Colourful and super
create an unexpected adventure in the
entertaining series,
journey to discover Singapore.
a must-watch for any
travel series fan.
Anything but Bland Anything but Dull Anything but Boring
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 40

--- PAGE 41 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Privileges programme in August 2019. features a four-metre mural painted by our
The programme aggregated attractive Brand Personality, artist Sam Lo (SKL0),
privileges and deals from various businesses depicting the history behind Neil Road.
across retail, dining and attractions to drive
Chinese visitor arrivals and spending. STB also teamed up with the iconic Barbie
Based on interim results, visitors using the to profile home-grown talents as part of their
programme spent about 2.4 times more brand campaigns — Passion Made Possible
than the average Alipay user in Singapore. and You Can Be Anything — through
Users also shared encouraging reviews that inspirational stories. The marketing
the programme worked well as a one-stop partnership included a showcase of 60 Barbie
information portal featuring a wide range of dolls in customised outfits created by 18 local
offerings, allowing them to enjoy the best of creatives and design brands, and a social
Singapore. media contest. The collaboration,
in celebration of Barbie’s 60th anniversary,
As a celebration of origin and heritage, was the first between both brands in
Tiger Beer unveiled their limited-edition Singapore.
District Bottles that featured 20 different
Singapore districts. To kick-start the two-year STB entered into a marketing partnership
partnership, and encourage consumers to with HBO on Westworld Season 3 to heighten
find out more about the precincts, STB and Singapore’s appeal as a leisure destination
Tiger Beer developed Augmented Reality among HBO’s network of global audiences.
filters on Facebook for four districts — Katong, Part of the filming for the Westworld episodes
Chinatown, Bugis and Tiong Bahru. took place in Singapore where key cast
members and showrunners were in town.
As part of an MoU with SPC Singapore, Singapore was, therefore, the backdrop
franchiser of Shake Shack Singapore, for some of the stunning sci-fi scenes
STB and Alibaba Group inked a three-year across the entire travel decision-making STB collaborated with them to bring to life in the series. Through the partnership,
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), process, allowing both parties to jointly the story behind their second Singapore store a Singapore-centric Behind-The-Scenes (BTS)
underlining the commitment from embark on marketing, data and technology at 28 Neil Road. Once an old factory, the video was co-developed to strengthen STB’s
both parties to scale up our partnership and partnerships, and collaborate on experience refurbished building is now home to the Passion Made Possible brand and position
open opportunities, and deepening STB’s development. world’s most uniquely decorated Shake Singapore as a forward-thinking destination
collaborations with business units such as Shack. Decorated in a manner that pays that is constantly imagining new possibilities.
Alipay, Youku, Fliggy and Alibaba Cloud. In addition, as part of a three-year marketing homage to Singapore’s colonial past,
This was STB’s first time working with a partnership with Alipay, STB launched the the store breaks away from the restaurant’s
partner like Alibaba Group with strong levers first phase of the Passion Made Possible usual guidelines. The building’s forefront also
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 41

--- PAGE 42 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
RE-INVENTING HOSPITALITY
To raise the competitiveness of the hotel industry, STB launched new initiatives to drive innovation and grow its talent.
In its third year, the Hotel Careers Campaign hotels to be more competitive and innovative STB’s Business Improvement Fund supported
featured 100 Ambassadors of Happiness from for sustainable growth, STB worked in close over 90 hotel projects, including
over 60 hotels to showcase career possibilities collaboration with industry partners to drive first-of-its-kind solutions to alleviate
in the hotel industry. The campaign also enhanced guest experiences via new operational pain points. They included
shone the spotlight on individuals who had solutions and initiatives. The new E-Visitor automated guided vehicles that delivered
benefitted from workplace diversity and Authentication (EVA) was deployed in banquet tables, AI-predictive maintenance
inclusion. The 2019 Open Hotels Weekend November 2019, creating a seamless check-in systems to monitor the performance of HVAC
recruitment events successfully placed more experience for both hotel staff and guests. equipment remotely, and live trackers of
than 90 jobseekers. With EVA, hotels can use facial recognition inventory levels for housekeeping.
technology to authenticate guest identities, The Experience Step-Up Fund also
Led by Singapore Hotel Association (SHA) and and send data to the Immigration and supported innovative experiences such as
Food, Drinks & Allied Workers Union (FDAWU), Checkpoint Authority to verify guests’ stay Park Hotel Group’s The Great Singapore
and supported by STB and WSG, the Human validity. As a result, check-in time can be Scavenger Hunt, where guests were rewarded
Capital Advisory Committee launched the reduced by up to 70 per cent. for completing activities on an app while
hotel job redesign initiative, where over 100 discovering Singapore; and the Grand
hotels pledged to implement job redesign by To further encourage hotels to adopt Copthorne Waterfront’s complimentary tours,
2020 to ensure that hotel jobs remain innovative solutions, the 2019 edition of the activities and workshops for guests to live like
attractive. WSG’s Job Redesign Place-and- Hotel Innovation Challenge seeded 17 new a local.
Train Programme for hotels also helped train solutions with 17 hotels in the areas of
and upskill existing hotel workers for housekeeping, HR scheduling and data
redesigned job roles. analytics. The Hotel Industry Digital Plan was
made available too, categorising solutions by
Technology and innovation in the hospitality levels of complexity to facilitate hotels in
sector continued to be a driving theme for developing their own digital roadmap.
2019 to further boost productivity, which has A Smart Hotel Technology Guide was also
grown 4.5 per cent in nominal terms annually launched for hotels seeking ideas on
since 2015, exceeding the 2020 target of next-generation technology solutions in
2 per cent set out in the Hotel Industry heart-of-house operations, with the help of
Transformation Map (ITM). To further case studies from hotels and other industries.
transform the hotel industry and support our
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 42

--- PAGE 43 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CRUISE
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the cruise industry was one of the fastest-growing segments of the global travel and leisure sector. STB remains confident in
the mid- to longer-term prospects of cruising as an attractive leisure offering in Southeast Asia.
Demand for cruising remained strong in 2019, tandem with Royal Caribbean’s Quantum
with Royal Caribbean International and Class deployment in Singapore, including the
Genting seeing healthy occupancy for their Quantum of the Seas, one of Asia’s largest
ships. Foreign cruise throughput grew by and most revolutionary cruise ships. The ship
3.5 per cent while ship calls rose 3.2 per cent arrived for a six-month homeporting season
to 414, with more European liners such as in Singapore, Royal Caribbean’s longest ever
AIDA Cruises and Marella Cruises contributing Singapore deployment for a Quantum Class
to the growth. ship.
In November 2019, Royal Caribbean
International, Changi Airport Group and
STB entered a five-year multi-million dollar
partnership to bring more fly-cruise visitors to
Singapore. The partnership was announced in
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 43

--- PAGE 44 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
EXPERIENCE SINGAPORE THROUGH NEW LENS
There is always something new to discover in Singapore. Together with our tourism partners, STB continued to redefine visitor experiences through new
developments and initiatives.
In April 2019, STB called for Expressions of forest areas of the Central Catchment Nature
Interest (EOI) for a seven-hectare tourism Reserve (CCNR) on both sides of Mandai Lake
development in Jurong Lake District. Road, providing a safer way for animals like
The tourism development is envisioned to be mousedeer, civet cats and pangolins to cross
a world-class lifestyle destination, comprising the road. At 140 metres long and 35–44 metres
attractions, hotels and leisure offerings, wide at different points, the bridge has a
featuring the best of sustainability and continuous canopy of more than 31,000 plants
innovation in Singapore. At the close of to encourage shy, forest-dependent animals to
the EOI in December 2019, 29 local and move across the link.
international companies had registered
their interest. The world’s first NERF-dedicated family
entertainment centre, Nerf Action Xperience
As part of the Mandai Nature Park’s officially opened its doors on 4 October 2019.
rejuvenation by the Mandai Park Holdings, The new 19,000 sq ft attraction consists of
the Mandai Wildlife Bridge was the first feature four themed activity zones to encourage
to be completed and officially opened in active play, enrichment, team building,
December 2019. The bridge connects the two skill-testing and creativity.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 44

--- PAGE 45 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
The Grand Prix Season Singapore (GPSS) Precinct Parties included go-kart racing at
Precinct Parties was a new initiative for the Grange Road Carpark (Orchard Road Precinct
2019 season, adding a fresh dimension to Party), Block Party at Haji Lane and street
the 12th edition of the 10-day GPSS. performance competition (Kampong Gelam
Curated by STB together with precinct Precinct Party), and remote-control car racing
partners, the GPSS Precinct Parties featured (Jewel Precinct Party). The GPSS Precinct
four visitor hotspots — Kampong Gelam, Parties drew significant media interest,
Orchard Road, Jewel Changi Airport and reiterating that the Formula 1 Singapore
Clarke Quay. This brought the excitement of Airlines Singapore Grand Prix offers so much
the race into the heart of the city for locals more than the race, and is indeed the crown
and visitors while showcasing the unique jewel of the F1 calendar.
character of each area. Highlights of the GPSS
Launched on 25 January 2019, Design Orchard
is a long-term initiative to nurture, profile and
develop local brands. Its Retail Showcase
features a wide range of products with more
than 60 brands across Fashion, Small Home
Furnishings, Wellness & Beauty, Souvenirs,
Food Confectionary and Sports Apparel.
In its first year of operations, Design Orchard
received more than 240,000 visitors,
including visitors from markets such as China,
US, Indonesia, Australia and Japan.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 45

--- PAGE 46 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
A DIGITAL FUTURE FOR TOURISM
With the digital economy, there is an increasing need to constantly innovate and adopt new technology.
wide support from the industry with close Providing convenience and enhanced
to 3,200 businesses from over 80 experiences to visitors starts at the airport.
countries signing up to the platform. STB collaborated with ICA as part of the
These companies are drawing on TIH for International Traveller Service Journey to
content and smart digital services via APIs launch the SG Arrival Card on the Visit
for a variety of applications, from augmenting Singapore Travel Guide App in January 2020.
their websites and mobile apps to The SG Arrival Card is an electronic version of
supplementing content for their chatbots. the paper disembarkation/embarkation (DE)
In 2019, content in Chinese, Japanese and card that international visitors are required
Korean was made available to increase the to submit upon arrival. This e-Service allows
discoverability of tourism businesses’ visitors to submit their arrival information and
offerings to non-English speaking travellers. health declaration within three days prior to
At the same time, businesses without a login arrival in Singapore, providing a smoother
STB launched the Singapore Tourism add more data and features. Stan will provide
service were able to tap on the Visit Singapore experience during immigration clearance.
Accelerator in October 2019 to leverage new tourism businesses a tool to view and perform
Account for a fast, convenient and secure way
innovations and technology to transform and analysis on tourism-related data, deriving
to log into their digital application or website.
future-proof the tourism sector and set actionable insights about Singapore’s visitors.
Singapore tourism apart. The highly selective
programme brings the most promising STB continued to build on the One Singapore
technology start-ups from Singapore and Experience, to drive a seamless and
around the world to pilot innovative solutions frictionless end-to-end consumer journey for
with more than 30 forward-thinking industry all visitors. To this end, STB has been rolling
partners. The inaugural batch of eight out technology resources to support our
start-ups conducted 10 pilots with industry tourism businesses to be living labs for
partners, which culminated in a digital demo innovative ideas and to develop concepts for
day event in March 2020. a vibrant tourism ecosystem.
The Singapore Tourism Analytics Network Since its launch in 2018, the Tourism
(Stan) was also launched for the tourism Information and Services Hub (TIH) has
industry, starting with an overview of key continued to increase the variety of tourism
Visitor Arrivals data, and will progressively information and services available, receiving
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 46

--- PAGE 47 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
As an added convenience, Visit Singapore app recommendations based on a visitor’s needs
users can access the SG Arrival Card e-Service and preferences. Similarly, the B2B chatbot
by signing up for a Visit Singapore Account, provides our tourism businesses with
a unique digital identifier for visitors that information at their fingertips, such as
was launched on the Visit Singapore app in financial support schemes, licensing matters
April 2019. They can also update their profile and event planning resources.
and interests, which allows the app to
personalise recommendations at every step Four Visit Singapore Kiosks were launched at
of their travel journey. the Singapore Visitor Centre @ orchardgateway.
The kiosks provide self-service options to
The seamless experience for visitors was also visitors, where they can autonomously browse
enhanced when both Central Refund local information, event happenings and
Agencies, Tourego and Global Blue launched recommendations, enhancing STB’s
the Mobile Check-Out Tax Refund solution at productivity efforts in serving our customers.
Changi Airport in late December 2019 and
February 2020 respectively. The one-year pilot
development is an alternative to the current
self-help kiosks at Changi Airport, and affords
more convenience to visitors who can submit
and validate tax refund claims directly from
their mobile devices.
STB also promoted active use of Artificial
Intelligence (AI) techniques and solutions,
and piloting with tech companies to make
AI-related tools ubiquitous and easily
accessible within STB, the tourism industry
and for our visitors. Within STB, we are responsive and relevant to their customers. generated through the use of machine
making AI a key part of the work processes For example, through the Tourism learning techniques.
for STB staff. For example, we leveraged Information Hub, industry partners can use
machine learning techniques (such as neural our recommendation engine to power their STB launched B2C and B2B chatbots on our
networks) and deep learning techniques for own solutions to provide more relevant various platforms in August 2019. This is to
numerical analytics and forecasting to inform services to their customers. To augment address queries and provide assistance to our
our strategies and decision making. visitor experience, the Smart Itinerary Planner visitors and industry at all times, while
feature on our VisitSingapore app helps enhancing our productivity efforts. In the
At the same time, AI enables the tourism visitors plan a truly memorable visit to long term, the chatbot can serve as a virtual
industry to provide services that are personal, Singapore by providing recommendations assistant giving real-time and personalised
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 47

--- PAGE 48 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
To upgrade the tourism industry’s technology
competencies, STB launched the STB Tech
College, an upskilling initiative to equip the
travel and tourism industry with the
competencies and tools to harness
technology and data, and better adapt to
changes in the tourism landscape. Its first
partnership with the Singapore Management
University Academy saw three foundational
modules launched in January 2020 for the
‘Executive Certificate of Leading Tourism
Transformation’. The programmes are highly
contextualised for tourism, and provide
concrete case studies and easy-to-apply tools.
To date, a total of 30 attendees across the
travel agent, hotel and MICE industries have
benefitted from the courses.
STB also inked a partnership with
the Institute of Service Excellence at
Singapore Management University (ISE)
to benchmark the service performance of
information concierges across the Singapore
Visitor Centre network. Measured against
other service sectors on ISE’s Customer
Satisfaction Index of Singapore,
the benchmark will uncover opportunities for
service improvement and strategy refinement.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 48

--- PAGE 49 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BUSINESS TRAVEL, MEETINGS, INCENTIVES,
CONVENTIONS AND EXHIBITIONS (BTMICE)
Singapore’s BTMICE landscape continued to grow from strength to strength, with a strong calendar of events and support from global MICE partners.
In the MICE sector, notable business events 2019 also saw the global launch of travellers and share key information such as anchor new events in Singapore, reinforcing
helped to underscore Singapore as a choice In Singapore Incentives & Rewards (INSPIRE), event venues, schedules, news and push Singapore’s position as a Global-Asia node
MICE destination. Inaugural events included an incentive programme to attract potential notifications. bridging markets in the East and West.
the International Air Transport Association visitors from the international MICE sector.
(IATA) World Cargo Symposium (13–15 March In partnership with local Singapore On 29 May 2019, STB and Koelnmesse signed On the Professional Services front, Singapore
2019) with over 1,000 foreign attendees; and businesses, global INSPIRE offers a selection an MoU, marking a new partnership to hosted, for the first time, the Baker Tilly
the World Congress Intelligent Transport of complimentary experiences that qualified organise the Asian edition of the world’s International Global Tax Conference 2019 &
Systems 2019 (21–25 October 2019), which MICE groups visiting Singapore can enjoy. largest computer and video games festival, Baker Tilly International World Conference
attracted more than 6,000 foreign attendees, gamescom asia. This marked a major win for 2019, as well as the Kaspersky Security
reinforcing Singapore as a thought leader to the video games and esports industry in Analyst Summit 2019. Collectively, these
drive adoption of Intelligent Transport Singapore. The event will be a platform for events drew close to 1,000 foreign delegates
Systems (ITS) technologies across the region. industry thought leaders, local and regional to Singapore. In the Technology sector,
buyers, programmers, game designers and Ingram Micro held its Ingram Micro One APAC
Helping to elevate Singapore’s role in audio professionals to network, learn and 2019 regional conference in Singapore in 2019
sustainability, the BIR World Recycling exchange insights with their international for the second year running. International
Convention & Exhibition (19–22 May 2019) counterparts. delegates had the opportunity to meet with
attracted close to 800 international strategic partners in Singapore to form new
delegates. On the healthcare front, On 21 February 2020, STB and Deutsche business relationships and exchange
the International Council of Nurses (ICN) Messe AG, one of the world’s leading knowledge, insights and trends.
Congress 2019 (27 June–1 July 2019) welcomed In November 2019, STB partnered WeChat, exhibition organisers, signed an MoU
over 5,000 international delegates. As the a widely used Chinese social media platform, to establish its first Southeast Asian Singapore hosted the SAP Field Kick-Off
world’s largest congress on nursing, and the Singapore Association of Convention headquarters — Hannover Fairs Asia-Pacific Meeting 2020 in January 2020, which made
international nursing leaders gathered in and Exhibition Organisers & Suppliers Pte Ltd — in Singapore. The new office will a return to the Lion City. The event is SAP’s
Singapore to chart directions for the global (SACEOS) to launch the world’s first deepen Deutsche Messe’s presence in Asia annual premier regional field sales event and
nursing community. 2019 also witnessed the country-level WeChat MICE Mini Programme, Pacific, providing greater support and the launch pad for communicating SAP’s
launch of first in Asia shows covering niche “MeetSG”. The programme targets MICE expanding their trade fairs in the region. business strategy, and senior SAP
contents including Eldex Asia, Singapore Vet travellers from China, allowing event Under this partnership, STB and Deutsche management members and customers were
Show and VidCon Asia Summit. organisers to connect with Chinese MICE Messe will work together to develop and in attendance.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 49

--- PAGE 50 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
DEVELOPING CAPABILITIES
IN THE TRAVEL AGENT SECTOR
With travel agents often being the first touchpoint for a visitor, capability development is an important strategy to stay relevant, especially in understanding
trends, the needs of future travellers, and embracing technology.
The Travel Agent Roadmap, a suite of The annual Travel Agent Industry Forum
initiatives to support travel agents in Business (TAIF), co-organised by STB and NATAS,
Transformation, Manpower and Technology, was held in November 2019, providing travel
continued to be a key thrust in 2019. agents with updates on initiatives and
STB launched the Travel Talent outcomes from the Travel Agent Roadmap.
Transformation & Management Programme Breakout sessions ranged from online
(T3), to help travel agents adopt better HR product distribution and manpower
practices. This would help the industry upskill development, to understanding customer
its existing talent base, as well as attract new needs and future trends that would transform
talent. the industry. A showcase offered delegates
the opportunity to find out about niche tour
STB also developed a guide to identify the offerings, training on digital marketing and
right Travel Management System, a software people management, and travel management
solution for travel agents, to help them technology solutions.
understand the considerations needed for
their businesses. The guide provided a
framework for travel agents to leverage
technology more effectively, freeing up staff’s
time to deliver higher value work such as trip
curation and customer engagement.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 50

--- PAGE 51 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
COVID-19 AND ITS IMPACT ON TOURISM
COVID-19 has presented an unprecedented safety measures and changing consumer This is the biggest challenge
challenge for tourism in Singapore. As one of needs. Through all of this, STB lauds the efforts Focus of TRAC: that Singapore tourism has
the first countries outside China to be and resilience of the industry, and continues 1. Restoring confidence and providing faced in its 56-year history,
affected by the outbreak, Singapore’s tourism to give them the support they need. assurance to Singaporeans and but it is not insurmountable.
sector took an early hit. As the pandemic foreign visitors. We don’t know how long the
worsened around the world, we saw global When the pandemic first struck, STB formed 2. Rallying stakeholders in their sectors crisis will last, or how it will
travel grind to a halt with countries imposing the Tourism Recovery Action Task Force (TRAC), to participate in and support recovery develop. But we do know this:
travel bans and lockdowns. By the end of July with members from government agencies, efforts. our foundations as a leading
2020, International Visitor Arrivals had industry associates and tourism business 3. Building the tourism sectors’ leisure and business
declined by 76 per cent compared to the owners. Through TRAC, industry stakeholders capabilities and identifying destination remain strong,
same period last year. This decline was and partners shared cross-cutting best opportunities amid the current and we will stand by our
expected, following the Singapore practices that were applicable to different situation. partners to chart a new path
Government’s border restrictions which were sectors of the tourism industry. 4. Developing a recovery strategy that ahead for tourism.
implemented progressively from February. differentiates Singapore from its — Keith Tan, Chief Executive,
From our experience with SARS in 2003, competitors. STB
travellers will only return if they feel safe and
In the first quarter of 2020, the hotel assured. Hence, the nationwide SG Clean
industry saw room revenue decline by campaign was launched in February 2020 to businesses that were directly impacted.
31.8 per cent year-on-year to S$678 rally stakeholders and public to do their part Licence fees for hotels, travel agents and
million, while tourism receipts for by adopting social responsibility, raising tourist guides were waived, and support was
shopping fell 52 per cent year-on-year standards of cleanliness and public hygiene, available for businesses and individuals to
to S$656 million. and safeguarding public health. Tourism defray third-party professional cleaning and
businesses are certified only if they meet disinfection costs for premises with
rigorous audited standards of cleaning and confirmed cases. At the same time, we kept in
Domestically, circuit breaker measures that sanitisation. By September 2020, more than regular contact with the travel trade from all
were put in place to slow the spread of the 22,000 businesses had been certified. over the world to update them about the
virus had a major impact on all sectors. situation in Singapore and re-affirm STB’s
Even as we exited the circuit breaker in June As the situation evolved, STB had to adapt commitment to our partnerships.
and began to re-open our economy, it was and respond quickly. Within a week of travel
especially challenging for our tourism partners restrictions being imposed on China,
and stakeholders, who had to adapt to new we rolled out targeted support measures for
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 51

--- PAGE 52 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
The Singapore government progressively selected tourism courses. This helped Technology became a necessity, and support In July, STB together with Sentosa
introduced more measures to support the companies retain employees and encouraged was introduced to help companies digitalise Development Corporation and Enterprise
economy, including the tourism sector, them to restructure, train and upgrade their in areas such as e-payments and e-invoicing, Singapore launched the SingapoRediscovers
to help businesses with their cash-flow and to employees’ skills. STB also supported tourism business processes and e-commerce. campaign. This domestic marketing push to
save jobs. Over S$100 billion was committed businesses through schemes such as the Likewise, it was imperative for the tourism spur domestic consumption of lifestyle and
across five budgets, providing a range of Training Industry Professionals in Tourism industry to raise its tech capabilities, and be tourism offerings was the first time STB was
support from temporary bridging loans and (TIP-iT) fund to support employee upgrading, armed with the right data, insights and ability driving domestic demand since the Step Out
property tax rebates to enhanced training and talent and leadership development. to scale new products, fast. STB developed a Singapore campaign after SARS, and the
and wage support and rental waivers for set of tools, including a Tourism BOOST campaign in 2009 after the financial
small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). The COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) Act was Transformation Index (TXI), a self-diagnostic crisis. S$320 million will be set aside in the
The S$2 billion SGUnited Jobs and Skills passed in June 2020 to offer temporary relief tool for companies to assess their strengths, form of SingapoRediscovers Vouchers,
Package aimed to create close to 100,000 to businesses and individuals unable to identify areas of opportunity and provide to encourage Singaporeans to discover
new jobs, traineeships and skills training perform their contractual obligations due to recommendations on next steps to take in hidden gems and new experiences across
opportunities. Tourism businesses, from COVID-19. their digital transformation journey. We also Singapore.
hotels like Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza extended the Singapore Tourism Analytics
Hotel, Andaz Singapore and The Ascott Network, or Stan, to industry stakeholders so
Limited, to MICE technology providers like Lessons from the pandemic: they can access data such as updated tourism
GlobalSign.In, participated in the programme, 1. The need for continuous innovation statistics to help them plan for recovery.
allowing individuals to gain exposure in the and transformation, so that we can In addition, businesses were encouraged to
tourism industry and improve their survive future shocks. tap on the Tourism Information and Services
employability. To provide further financial 2. The importance of diversification. Hub to contribute and access travel-related
relief to travel agents and to help them retain 3. Using and sharing data to guide our content and services for use on their own
workers, STB also lowered the minimum response – beyond pricing strategies digital platforms.
financial requirement by 90 per cent and consumer insights, we should
to S$10,000 for travel agents holding a share and use data to identify new In the area of marketing, STB launched the
general licence, and S$5,000 for travel agents growth opportunities and come Marketing Partnership Programme to help
holding a niche licence. together to deliver a better visitor tourism businesses market their services and
experience for our destination. build demand. The SG Stories Content Fund
As part of the tourism support measures, the 4. Invest in our people – we must make was also initiated to encourage content
Enhanced Training Support Package included sure our teams are ready to compete creators to create compelling stories about
higher absentee payroll support for employee in a crowded marketplace when the Singapore, and enhance our destination
training and higher course fee subsidies for time comes. attractiveness.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 52

--- PAGE 53 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Stakeholder Efforts
Tourism businesses took steps to pivot and tours. The first virtual Singapore Food Festival workers to support the national effort.
adjust to the crisis. MICE organisers shifted to was introduced, with virtual food tours, Tourist guides, whose jobs and livelihoods While the road to recovery will be long,
virtual meetings and events. For example, the limited-edition food bundles and virtual were disrupted, became Safe Distancing STB urges our tourism partners to
International Dental Exhibition and Meeting masterclasses. Within Southeast Asia, Ambassadors to engage and advise the persevere and keep that spirit of
(IDEM) converted its physical trade show and STB launched TravelThrowBack to encourage public and establishments on the rules. professionalism, agility,
conference into a fully virtual event in June people to share photos of their past travels to and solidarity which has never waned
2020, attracting close to 4,000 participants Singapore and the rest of Southeast Asia, Looking Towards throughout this crisis.
and 300 exhibiting brands from over 50 and inspire future trips within the region.
the Future
countries. Hybrid event formats were also These efforts ensure that Singapore remains
adopted, where content was delivered top-of-mind among our future visitors when
STB is continuing with our long-term
virtually while live components for small the time is right for them to return.
investments, such as the Mandai Nature
groups fulfilled delegates’ needs to connect.
Precinct and Jurong Lake District. In addition,
Marina Bay Sands Singapore also launched a Operationally, the tourism industry has
in June 2020, we awarded the tender for the
hybrid event broadcast studio with hologram put in tremendous effort to adhere to Safe
Grange Road event space to Lendlease Global
functionalities at its Sands Expo and Management Measures. Industry partners
Commercial REIT. This will transform the
Convention Centre. have also provided good feedback and ideas
Grange Road car park into a multi-functional
on how their businesses could restart without
plug-and-play event space — as part of
Focusing on strengthening Singapore’s brand compromising the safety of their guests.
ongoing efforts under the Orchard Road
image in the minds of our international
Rejuvenation Plan to enhance the appeal of
audiences, many tourism businesses stepped STB was heartened that many tourism
Orchard Road and strengthen its position as
up efforts to enable people from around the stakeholders stepped up their efforts
a lifestyle destination. STB is also working
world to experience Singapore from their own — not only to innovate, but to go above and
closely with the Tote Board to re-imagine the
homes. Zouk Singapore introduced Zouk beyond the call of duty. For example, our
Singapore Racecourse as a leisure destination
Digital featuring daily live-streamed and hotels stepped up to accommodate and
that celebrates its equestrian heritage and
pre-recorded content including personality provide affordable accommodation for
lush green spaces. To appeal to a wider range
interviews, cocktail classes, DJ sets, and even Malaysian workers after Malaysia announced
of visitors, we are re-envisioning the
fitness sessions and gaming streams. Wildlife its Movement Control Order in March. They
Kranji-Mandai precinct — including the
Reserves Singapore’s Hello from the Wild Side also provided accommodation for returning
Racecourse — as an urban-nature district with
initiative enabled the public to engage with Singaporeans who had to serve their Stay
edu-adventure offerings.
the animals virtually through video meetings Home Notice in dedicated facilities, while
with “animal ambassadors” and interactive Genting Cruise Lines accommodated migrant
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 53

--- PAGE 54 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CALENDAR OF EVENTS
APR 2019 MAY 2019
HSBC Singapore USANA Asia Pacific World Gourmet Summit
Rugby 7s 2019 Convention 2019
Rugby 7s returned for its fourth consecutive Returning to Singapore for the fifth time The World Gourmet Summit (WGS) 2019
year on 13–14 April 2019 at the National in April 2019, the highly anticipated celebrated its 23rd run as Asia’s premier
Stadium. Diehard fans and supporters extravaganza celebrated the achievements of culinary festival acknowledging the efforts of
witnessed two days of intense matchups USANA’s top performing sales associates from key players and motivating aspiring talents in
across 16 of the best Rugby 7s nations. the region and attracted over 6,000 the culinary industry towards success.
The weekend culminated in a nail-biting final attendees. Running from 1 April to 12 May 2019, the event
with South Africa edging out Fiji 20–19. welcomed a gastronomic line-up of
Complementary programmes like Music After DHL Global Technology international masterchefs and culinary
Sevens at Clarke Quay and activities at the Conference maestros. AIA Glow Festival 2019
Festival Village at the National Stadium kept
the entire weekend abuzz.
The first of its kind in Singapore, the AIA Glow
The DHL Global Technology Conference
Festival offered a full day of activities including
welcomed more than 370 supply chain
JSSL Singapore
yoga, a run, food and music. Taking place in
experts and senior-level decision makers from
International 7’s Sentosa, the event attracted a large audience
the technology industry, exploring new
seeking to reset, recharge and re-energise
business opportunities and learning from
from the daily grind.
Asia’s largest youth football tournament saw startup companies which presented their
a record 416 teams over the Easter weekend. latest technologies and solutions.
A new category, the Pro Academy Girls,
saw Atletico Madrid take home the inaugural
Girls’ title after a tough battle with teams
such as Liverpool and Barcelona.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 54

--- PAGE 55 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
MAY 2019
RWS Street Eats 2019 Deutsche Bank 10th Hari Raya Light-up 2019
Annual dbAccess Asia
Back for its third year, the 10-day event 2019 Over 2 million people visited Geylang Serai
showcased regional delicacies, snacks and during the Hari Raya Light-up and Bazaar
desserts across 24 hawker stalls hailing from Deutsche Bank’s annual flagship conference 2019. With close to 50 light installations
Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, in Asia welcomed over 1,800 delegates, stretching over 1.8km, the light-up featured
Taiwan and Singapore. The event was held at comprising Deutsche Bank’s investor clients, intricate designs of iconic Malay symbols,
the Malaysian Food Street in Resorts World senior corporate executives, influential such as golden domes, kampong houses and
Sentosa. industry experts and thought-leading gendang drums. The popular Geylang Serai
academics. Complementing the conference Bazaar housed around 500 stalls selling a mix
were insightful field trips and site visits. of traditional Malay fare, accessories and
Singapore Cocktail household items, along with contemporary
Festival 2019 BIR World Recycling snacks and lifestyle items. Container-style
stalls with various themes made a first
Convention & Exhibition
appearance this year, adding a modern touch
The Singapore Cocktail Festival returned for
to the popular annual Bazaar. In addition,
its fifth edition at the Empress Lawn,
The BIR World Recycling Convention & the community came together to celebrate
drawing about 8,500 cocktail enthusiasts,
Exhibition attracted close to 800 foreign through programmes such as a Cultural
bartenders, bar owners, spirit makers and
delegates in the recycling industry, convening Heritage Race, mass iftar sessions and a
brand ambassadors from around the world.
to build partnerships in an international ketupat-weaving marathon.
Consumers indulged in cocktails from top
environment, keep abreast of technology
mixologists and pop-up bars, and for the first
developments and industry trends, and stay Gallery Children’s
time, were able to participate in a range of
up-to-date on international legislation
“50 Minutes with 50 Best” masterclasses by Biennale 2019:
affecting trade.
bartenders from the World and Asia’s Embracing Wonder
50 Best Bars. The Barstylez International
Bartender Championship Finals saw more
Held across seven months, the second edition
than 60 bartenders from over 25 countries
of Gallery Children’s Biennale invited children
competing in “Cocktail” and “Flairing”
and the young-at-heart to embrace a
contests.
fantastic, magical world through imaginative
artwork installations.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 55

--- PAGE 56 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
MAY 2019 JUN 2019
Singapore International World’s 50 Rainforest Lumina 2019
Festival of Arts (SIFA) Best Restaurants
The successful multimedia immersive night
2019
walk experience at the Singapore
The World’s 50 Best Restaurants made its
Zoo returned for a second season from
debut in Singapore, marking the first time
The 42nd edition of SIFA featured established
14 June 2019 to 9 February 2020. This edition
this highly-established global restaurant
international and local artistes, with special
saw two refreshed zones — Call of the Wild
awards platform arrived in Asia. STB also
focus on technology and multi-disciplinary
and a roaring welcome from Tairee the White
partnered the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts
work. The festival was held from 16 May to
Tiger, and a new LED dance performance at
(NAFA) to showcase 70 culinary-themed art
2 June across various public venues such as
the start of the trail walk.
pieces along Orchard Road, welcoming
The Arts House, Empress Lawn, Victoria
international chefs, F&B industry professionals
Theatre and Victoria Concert Hall, School of
and visitors to Singapore. Children’s Festival
the Arts, and Singapore Botanic Gardens.
at Gardens by the Bay
Children’s Special 2019
Children’s Festival @ Gardens by the Bay,
The Children’s Special at the National held at the Supertree Grove, delighted many
Museum launched an official interactive families with Disney’s Toy Story 4 content and
family guide to the museum, “Get Curious!”. animation, courtesy of the Walt Disney
Young audiences and families were invited Company (Southeast Asia). The festival
to discover stories of highlighted artefacts, included the world’s largest Marble Run
and experience different types of play (Rolly Golly) and never-been-done-before
incorporating fascinating story worlds Toy Story Garden Rhapsody, a multimedia,
of land, sea and forest. light and sound show. Attracting
approximately 500,000 visitors, the event
also included trail book activities, Toy Story
character meet-and-greet sessions, Pixar
Animation workshops, retail and F&B zones.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 56

--- PAGE 57 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
JUN 2019 JUL 2019
International Council
of Nurses (ICN) Congress
2019
Welcoming over 5,000 foreign delegates,
this is the world’s largest conference
on nursing, and is regarded as a
best-in-class event in the global nursing
community.
SG Floorball Open
GSS 2019: Smart Nation Innovations 2019 International
Experience Singapore (SNI) Week Presents Champions Cup (ICC)
The largest SG Floorball Open to date, the
Innovfest Unbound Singapore Presented
2019 edition saw top clubs from Sweden,
The newly rebranded Great Singapore Sale
IBK Dalen, Pixbo Wallenstam and Hammarby by AIA
2019: Experience Singapore shone the
IF IBF competing against top talents in the The leading event showcasing Singapore’s
spotlight on the “Singapore Experience”
region. The newly introduced summer camp technology talent, ecosystem and innovation The world’s football stars came to town for
to celebrate our local talents. It kicked off
was headlined by Switzerland National Team to the world, Innovfest Unbound 2019 the 2019 ICC Singapore, attracting more than
in style outside Design Orchard with the
Coach David Jansson where participants not featured 500 exhibiting cross-vertical startup 100,000 fans across two matches to cheer on
Singapore Retailers Association’s (SRA)
only got to meet their idols, but had the technologies, 14 high profile startup the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo (Juventus), Son
launch event, The Orchard Road Fashion
opportunity to learn and play alongside some competitions and over 50 international Heung Min (Tottenham Hotspur) and David
Scramble, to showcase local and international
of Sweden’s top professional players. startup delegations. The cornerstone of Smart De Gea (Manchester United). With fans of the
labels. This was followed by a flurry of pop-up
Nation Innovations Week, where international
Red Devils showing up in full force,
events, performances and the first ever
government delegations convene to be a part
Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar
activation at the historical precinct Kampong
of and drive the conversation around digital
Solskjaer likened the atmosphere in the
Gelam. A total of 1,000 brands participated in
societies of the future, the event attracted
National Stadium to Old Trafford.
various sales and activities during the period.
over 18,000 delegates.
Today, [the stadium] was
Old Trafford; it felt like
we were at home.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 57

--- PAGE 58 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
JUL 2019 AUG 2019
Singapore Food Festival Great Indian Food Singapore Night Festival Ingram Micro ONE APAC
2019 Festival 2019 2019 2019
Singapore’s only event dedicated to local Singapore Food Festival returned to Little The Bras Basah Bugis district was transformed Ingram Micro One APAC is the company’s
cuisine and local talent reprised the theme India after five years. In line with Bicentennial into an ethereal wonderland, adorned with flagship event and offers insights on the
“Savour Singapore in Every Bite” for its 26th celebrations, the Great Indian Food Festival iconic art installations over two weekends in fastest growing technologies in the market,
edition. Twenty event partners offering dining re-created street dining scenes of Little India August. A line-up of arts, heritage and such as Cyber Security, Cloud, Data Centre
concepts and gastronomic experiences came in the 1960s–1970s. Food carts by Indian cultural experiences was also presented by transformation, Collaboration and AI, and IOT.
together for a three-week celebration of heritage restaurants sold popular street food partners and stakeholders in the district. 1,300 IT vendors, partners, media and Ingram
Singapore’s dining culture. The event line-up dishes such as vadai, idli and teh-tarik. There Micro associates from Asia Pacific
included private chef dinners, food tours were also roving performances (e.g. snake Sands for Singapore participated in the Ingram Micro ONE
around heritage districts and theatrical charmers), cooking masterclasses and F&B APAC 2019 in Singapore, engaging in
Charity Festival 2019
dining experiences. Foodies were also treated promotions. Organised by the Indian state-of-the-art information technology
to specially produced products from Avocado Restaurant Association of Singapore (IRAS), innovations.
The annual charity event of Marina Bay Sands’
Kopi by LiHO TEA, Chicken Satay Onigiri by the event garnered over 300,000 attendees.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
7-Eleven, and Pocky x Ya Kun Kaya Toast &
programme hosted 15 outreach activities
Kopi O Limited Edition Sets. Signature event
and raised over S$3.8 million to benefit
STREAT took place at The Promontory @
communities in need. The initiative has raised
Marina Bay, with a range of traditional hawker
over S$27 million and benefited more than
fare and mod-sin interpretations of
80 charities since its inception in 2013.
Singapore’s street food.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 58

--- PAGE 59 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
SEP 2019
Mid-Autumn Festival 2019 Jeunesse EXPO NEXT: GlamVoice
Singapore
The Chinatown Mid-Autumn Festival was a GlamVoice was an inaugural street
month-long celebration, featuring a themed performance competition that celebrated
Jeunesse, a leading global brand in
street light-up ceremony, festive bazaar, Singapore’s diverse busking talents and
the medical industry, celebrated its
nightly stage shows, a mass lantern walk, showcased the unique nightlife scene in
10th anniversary with thousands of
lantern-making and mooncake-making Kampong Gelam. GlamVoice also successfully
distributors from Asia-Pacific and Africa who
workshops, and heritage food trails leveraged the Grand Prix Season Singapore to
came together to celebrate what is NEXT for
conducted by youth volunteers. This helped enhance Kampong Gelam’s precinct identity
Generation Young. Jeunesse launched its new
to not only showcase heritage hawker food and vibrancy.
products and marketing tools, and provided
but also different parts of the Chinatown
networking opportunities for more than
precinct. The strong storytelling element was Michelin Guide Singapore
Sentosa Sandsation: 5,000 attendees.
also evident through storyboards placed at
2019 Star Revelation and
Star Wars Edition
key hotspots with high footfall, allowing
Deepavali Light-up and
Gala Dinner
visitors to gain a deeper understanding of
Celebrations 2019
the festival’s significance. The event saw The 2019 edition of Sentosa’s annual sand
1.13 million visitors. festival featured iconic scenes from Star Wars: The Michelin guide honoured 44 restaurants
The Force Awakens and Star Wars: The Last Besides the annual spectacular street in a celebratory awards night at The Capella
Halloween Jedi, re-created by local and international decorations and colourful festive bazaar, in Sentosa. Singapore fine-dining restaurants
sand sculptors. It also featured entries for the the 31st edition of Deepavali celebrations in Odette and Les Amis were both given the
Horror Nights® 9
Sentosa International Sand Sculpting Little India included an Utsavam Street Parade maximum three stars, creating history as
Championship, an international that commemorated Singapore’s bicentennial the first Singapore brands to earn such an
The 9th edition of the highly anticipated
sand-sculpting competition. year. New initiatives included a Curry Fiesta accolade.
Universal Studios Singapore®(USS) annual
that featured more than 200 different curries
Halloween Horror Nights® featured five
and Secret Tales of Little India, a promenade
haunted houses, two scare zones and two
theatrical experience. The Curry Fiesta won an
killer zones. In addition, USS embarked on
entry in Singapore’s Book of Records and drew
a first-ever collaboration with directors of Thai
over 2,500 visitors, while Secret Tales led its
horror blockbuster films Shutter and 4bia,
audience on a trail around the precinct to
to bring to life an original haunted house,
experience the heritage and culture of Little
Curse of the Naga.
India through drama performances.
In addition, the Deepavali Countdown concert
made a reappearance in Little India following
a three-year hiatus, adding a contemporary
dash to the programming.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 59

--- PAGE 60 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
SEP 2019 OCT 2019
Formula 1 Singapore Grand Prix Season Wine Pinnacle Awards
Airlines Singapore Grand Singapore and the GREAT Wine &
Prix Dine Festival 2019
Stretching across 10 days from 13 to
22 September 2019, Grand Prix Season
With more than 130 hours of entertainment Resorts World Sentosa hosted the inaugural
Singapore (GPSS) celebrated 12 years of the
across 10 stages, innovative hospitality Wine Pinnacle Awards, the world’s first
FORMULA 1 Singapore Airlines Singapore
offerings, and exciting gastronomic nomination-based wine awards honouring
Grand Prix with an exhilarating range of
experiences throughout the Circuit Park, the best in wine making, in conjunction with
exclusive lifestyle experiences outside of the
the 12th edition of the Formula 1 night race The GREAT Wine & Dine Festival 2019.
race circuit prior to and during the race.
drew 268,000 spectators to the Marina Bay The three-day event showcased over 400
2019 saw the launch of GPSS Precinct Parties,
Street Circuit over an action-packed weekend. wines and craft sake, masterclasses by the
large-scale activations at key tourist hotspots UFC Fight Week
The entertainment line-up over the race world’s top wine critics, as well as exclusive
that featured a curated line-up of offerings
weekend included Swedish House Mafia, dishes created by acclaimed celebrity chefs. Singapore 2019
with race-themed programming to provide
Muse, Gwen Stefani, Fatboy Slim,
visitors the opportunity to experience the
Hans Zimmerman, Toots and the Maytals with International Chefs
Ultimate Fighting Championship’s (UFC)
unique characteristics of each location.
Red Hot Chili Peppers closing the weekend at
Summit Asia Fight Week Singapore, the world’s premier
the Padang Stage.
mixed martial arts (MMA) organisation,
returned to Singapore on 26 October 2019
The third International Chefs Summit Asia
with a highly-anticipated headlining bout
was hosted in Singapore, with the theme
— Maia vs. Askren. Fans were treated to a feast
“Sourcing Locally, Innovating Globally”.
of world-class MMA action with 11 bouts at
The event included the Asian Culinary
the Singapore Indoor Stadium. In the lead-up
Seminar, a Chef’s Forum and exclusive dining
to the event, UFC conducted Open Workout
experiences helmed by leading chefs in Asia.
and meet-and-greet sessions at iconic
locations in Singapore. Fans also had the
chance to watch their favourite fighters
during their weigh-in and enjoyed a
memorable official after-party at Capital
Zouk.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 60

--- PAGE 61 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
OCT 2019
Watch Art Grand ITB Asia Baker Tilly International
Exhibition Global Tax Conference
Asia’s largest and only hybrid show bringing
and Baker Tilly
together leisure, corporate and MICE sectors,
Organised by Patek Philippe, the exhibition
International World
showcased hundreds of exhibiting companies
was held for the first time in Asia at Marina
from the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, Conference 2019
Bay Sands Singapore, following New York,
the Americas, Africa and the Middle East.
Dubai, and London. Offering the public a rare
insight into the world of watchmaking, the The 2019 show saw strong participation with The annual Baker Tilly International Global
16-day exhibition drew a large local and over 1,300 exhibitors and more than Tax Conference, which rotates to a different
overseas crowd. Visitors could watch a movie 1,250 buyers. A total of 13,000 attendees from continent each year, took place in Singapore
portraying Patek Philippe’s history, 132 countries and territories also attended the for its 2019 edition. Unlike past conferences,
admire the manufacturer’s complete current Jeweluxe 2019 show. In addition, organiser Messe Berlin the 600-pax 2019 conference was held in
collection, and immerse themselves in a (Singapore) launched the inaugural conjunction with Baker Tilly International
unique selection of complicated watches MICE Show Asia 2019 to focus on World Conference 2019.
In its third year, the annual homegrown
Asia-Pacific’s burgeoning MICE sector.
and range of movements. A number of
jewellery and watch event featured 72
watchmakers and artisans were also live Industrial Transformation
jewellery brands and 18 independent watch
Intelligent Transport
on-site to demonstrate their skills, offering brands. It has become the world’s largest and Asia-Pacific 2019
visitors insights into horological artistry and System World Congress
only multi-brand jewellery and timepiece
the finesse mastered by specialist artisans.
showcase held in a marquee. Trade event Industrial Transformation
The event attracted 68,000 visitors from over
The inaugural event attracted more than Asia-Pacific 2019 was organised by SingEx
25 countries.
6,000 foreign attendees and helped to Exhibitions Pte Ltd, in partnership with
reinforce Singapore’s position as an innovation Deutsche Messe, the world’s leading
hub and thought leader to drive adoption of German-based event organiser. The event,
ITS technologies across the region. scoped for the Asian market, was an
adaptation of Hannover Messe, the world’s
Bentley’s Year in largest industrial technology event. The 2019
Infrastructure 2019 event attracted over 18,000 industry
practitioners from 77 countries, and
350 exhibitors from 30 countries.
Singapore provided a dynamic setting for
the content-rich agenda of this global
gathering of over 1,000 leading executives
in the world of infrastructure design,
construction, and operations.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 61

--- PAGE 62 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
NOV 2019
Chinatown Opera Festival 2019 DRL Allianz:
2019 Singapore Champions
The inaugural Chinatown Opera Festival, The world’s only professional circuit for drone
organised by the Chinatown Business racing, the Drone Racing League (DRL),
Association, re-created the Chinese opera held its first live race in Asia. In partnership
scene of 19th century Chinatown. With the with Changi Airport Group, the race took
collaboration of stakeholders across the place in the world’s largest glass greenhouse
precinct, the festival featured local and at Gardens by the Bay, and saw professional
overseas opera troupes, puppetry, pilots navigate through a complex
mask painting, specially-curated walking three-dimensional track around the Flower
tours, photo booths with opera costumes Standard Chartered Dome at speeds of up to 144km/h. Living Worlds: An Animal
and props, and roving opera characters.
Singapore Marathon 2019 Planet Experience
C3AFA (“Anime Festival
MINI Extraordinary 2019
Asia”) Singapore
30 November 2019 marked the first time the Living Worlds: An Animal Planet Experience is
Standard Chartered Singapore Marathon was a made-in-Singapore and the world’s first
This unique art trail was themed
held in the evening. Runners ran past the STB supported Anime Festival Asia (AFA) wildlife and exploration travelling exhibition
around cultural sustainability was organised
iconic Gardens by the Bay, Singapore Flyer, 2019, one of the largest J-pop culture created and produced by Kingsmen.
by creative agency Kinetic for MINI Cooper.
Marina Bay Sands and Esplanade, amongst conventions outside Japan, to test-bed new A collaboration between global leader in real
The trail started from the open space at
other landmarks, making it one of the most programmes such as AFA Play and AFA Film life entertainment Discovery, Inc. and
People’s Park Food Centre and ended at
unforgettable routes on the marathon Fest. AFA 2019 reported a growth in total edutainment champion Science Centre
Temple Street, peppered with fifteen different
calendar. Bringing together the community visitorship of 120,000 (from 105,000 in 2018), Singapore, the exhibition offered immersive
art installations and experiences. The event
to support the runners, multiple spectator its highest attendance since its debut. environments and a behind-the-scenes look
attracted close to 30,000 visitors, among
zones and entertainment points were set up at documentary filming as it explored the
which 54 per cent were foreign visitors.
along the entire route. interdependent relationship between animals
and the environments they inhabit. Living
ONE Championship 2019
Worlds was held from 16 November 2019 to
1 March 2020.
Taking place at the Singapore Indoor Stadium
on 22 November 2019, the event included ONE
Bantamweight Muay Thai World Title along
with a number of exciting bouts that were
broadcasted globally.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 62

--- PAGE 63 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
NOV 2019 DEC 2019
EY Asia-Pacific Partners’ Frieze Art & Architecture Epicurean Market 2019
Conference 2019 Summit 2019
The Marina Bay Sands’ hallmark food and
wine extravaganza made a highly anticipated
Taking place only once every four years, Part of a partnership between STB and Frieze,
comeback in December for its sixth edition.
the EY Asia-Pacific Partners’ Conference 2019 Frieze Academy brought their flagship
Marina Bay Sands introduced an
brought together more than 2,000 partners London edition of the Art & Architecture
unprecedented format which featured the
across Asia-Pacific to discuss business Summit to Singapore in November 2019.
best of both its exclusive Signature Series,
priorities, strategy and opportunities, and The full-day programme explored the
featuring celebrity chef masterclasses and
build stronger global teams and networks. connection between the fields of art and
exclusive menus, and its ever-popular food
architecture and the ways in which art can
and wine show.
Deloitte All Hands define — or re-imagine — a sense of place,
Singapore FinTech Festival featuring speakers such as Kualapt Yantrasast,
Meeting
founding partner and creative director, whY,
and Singapore Week
and Benesse Art Prize winner Amanda Heng.
of Innovation and The annual Deloitte All Hands Meeting was
held over three days to discuss Deloitte’s
TeCHnology 2019 Street Superior Festival
strategy for Asia in the next fiscal year.
For the first time, the event was held in a
The Singapore FinTech Festival (SFF) and the Street Superior Festival (SSF), Singapore’s
festival-style tent on Siloso Beach Sentosa,
Singapore Week of Innovation and TeCHnology largest premier sneaker and streetwear
providing a unique memorable beachfront
(SWITCH) celebrated the first-of-its-kind convention dedicated to Singapore’s
setting for all 1,700 delegates from Deloitte.
collaboration with a week of events and subculture combining streetwear & sneakers,
activities centred around FinTech and deep music, digital and street art, was held at
GlamArt
technology. The week-long event attracted *SCAPE. In addition to the main event, there
more than 60,000 participants across 140 was also a pop up activation, “Street Superior
Colourful art installations, craft workshops
countries, comprising industry professionals, Mini” along the Orchard Road Pedestrian
and live music entertainment created an
founders, investors, academics and government Mall, to activate the street and drive footfall
edgy vibe in Kampong Gelam during the
agencies. SFF provided a platform for the to the main event through live
November arts peak. Augmented Reality
FinTech community to connect, collaborate and demonstrations of street art and
technology was introduced to enhance the
co-create, while SWITCH served as the go-to competitions.
precinct’s iconic street murals, while
innovation, collaboration and business platform
stakeholders such as outdoor Gelam Gallery
for not only startups, investors and corporates,
and PARKROYAL Hotel organised an art
but also researchers and ecosystem players
carnival and exhibition respectively.
from diverse backgrounds.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 63

--- PAGE 64 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
DEC 2019
Christmas on a Great Christmas
Street (COGS) Wonderland @ Gardens
by the Bay
COGS 2019 saw bigger and grander decorations
featuring miniature Santas on baubles, gift boxes
One of Singapore’s most popular year-end
and snowflakes. An added feature was the
events returned to Gardens by the Bay for its
welcome arch at the junction of Tanglin and
sixth year from 29 November to 26 December
Grange Road, as well as more than thirty
2019. In addition to the charming festive
giant-sized festive greeting cards on three-metre
market and fairground, visitors were
tall glass shards along the Orchard Road
enthralled by exciting new highlights, which
Pedestrian Mall. In addition to the light-up,
included the debut of the Christmas Parade,
COGS 2019 also included The Great Christmas ONE Esports DOTA2 Culture Cartel Convention
a brand new interactive Santa’s Workshop,
Village, spread over three different locations with
a riveting mix of international theatrical Singapore World Pro 2019
both family-friend and thrilling rides, and
productions, a whimsical Poinsettia
Invitational
Hasbro’s Mini TOYBOX activities featuring NERF,
Wishes floral display, and more 3D luminarie Asia’s first all-encompassing street culture
My Little Pony and Monopoly as well as
light installations.
event returned for its second edition in 2019.
Christmas Pop-up Stores along the Orchard The largest DOTA2 tournament in the region
Drawing over 18,000 attendees, the event
Road Pedestrian Mall by brands such as Bvlgari, featured 12 top teams from around the world,
included exclusive collaborations with several
Chomel, Singtel, Ice Mountain and iJooz. with a prize pool of US$500,000. This was the
OG street culture personalities, such as toy
first of a series of esports events that STB had
sculptor COARSE (LA) and Spanish illustrator
In conjunction with the Christmas festivities, supported to develop in Singapore across
Ricardo Cavolo (ES) who partnered Mercedes
Bvlgari unveiled its tallest Fireworks Tree, 2019 and 2020.
Benz on two exclusive projects; and OG street
towering at 18.5 metres, programmed with
artists Crash (NY) and Stash (NY) who teamed
an interactive digital mobile application
up with G-Shock on an exclusive watch
— pioneering a world’s first. The luxury brand
launch. It also featured the first edition of
also introduced the world’s tallest free-standing
#CCSoundstage which featured performers
Serpenti Necklace Light Structure, also
like rap icon Fatman Scoop and Def Jam
18.5 metres tall, inspired by Bvlgari’s iconic
Records SEA, and local rappers like Yung Raja
Serpenti jewellery piece. Both structures were
and Fariz Jabba. The convention also broke
complemented with an interactive digital
new ground on the social media front with
application each, enabling members of the
well-known YouTubers on board to host
public to launch their own coloured effects onto
live-streaming content for the first time.
the Fireworks Tree and Serpenti Necklace.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 64

--- PAGE 65 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
DEC 2019 JAN 2020
27 Pasir Panjang is part of the Urban Chinatown Chinese New
Redevelopment Authority’s long-term
Year Celebrations 2020
development plans for the Greater Southern
Waterfront, which extends from Pasir Panjang
Chinatown’s Chinese New Year Light-up
to Marina East, in the Draft Master Plan 2019.
and celebrations spanned over seven weeks
The site will be transformed into a new major
(4 January to 22 February 2020) with a
gateway and location for urban living along
themed street light up, festive bazaar,
Singapore’s southern coast. Development will
flower market, countdown party, nightly stage
take place in phases, starting with the former
shows, International Lion Dance Competition
Pasir Panjang Power District, Keppel Club and
and Chingay @ Chinatown. The Kreta Ayer
Mount Faber in the next five to ten
Community Centre also organised heritage
years. During the interim period, STB and
The Alex Blake Charlie Marina Bay Singapore food walking trails around different parts of
24OWLS are working to test bed the space as
Chinatown. Into its 13th year, the International
Sessions an events venue, 27PP, for varying formats of Countdown 2020
Lion Dance Competition attracted
entertainment and live music events.
16 reputable lion dance troupes from
The first ever edition of The Alex Blake Charlie Titled “Bay of Hopes and Dreams”,
Vietnam, Myanmar, Hong Kong, China,
Sessions, a brand new music festival, was held the Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2020
Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore,
on 7 December 2019 at the Pasir Panjang expanded beyond the Marina Bay district to
Cambodia and Thailand.
Power Station (27 Pasir Panjang). The festival feature activities at the Civic District. It also
is the first of its kind featuring a strong introduced new concepts such as the “Build a
female-fronted line up, presenting a mix of Dream” initiative, a collective effort to support
international and Singaporean artists. the underserved in fulfilling their dreams and
personal development. The event drew more
than 580,000 visitors. Multi-sensory fireworks
musical performance Star Island was a key
highlight of the Marina Bay Singapore
Countdown 2020. Its second edition included
a 500-drone performance, the largest of its
kind thus far in Singapore, and the world’s
first combined fireworks and drone display.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 65

--- PAGE 66 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
JAN 2020
River Hongbao (RHB) Singapore Art Week 2020 ARTWALK Little India Art Encounters 2020
2020 2020
An annual celebration of visual arts in the Art Encounters is a new presentation series
month of January, the nine-day celebration by Art Outreach that features diverse artists
The annual Lunar Chinese New Year event Part of Singapore Art Week, ARTWALK Little
offered artists, collectives, organisations and and mediums within repurposed shipping
that celebrates Chinese cultures and India has, over the years, grown from a
other art intermediaries a visible platform for containers. Functioning as a mobile artist’s
traditions showcased a 10-day extravaganza of five-day showcase of seven artworks in 2015 to
showcasing a range of quality visual arts studio, gallery and public engagement
lights, sights and sounds to usher in the Year an event drawing more than 266,000 visitors
projects, discussions, and exhibitions to a spaces, the containers will move to unique
of the Rat. This year, the organiser across 16 days of varied programming. Over
local and international audience. sites every few months. The inaugural edition
collaborated with the People’s Association the years, the number of artworks retained by
Key highlights included a site specific featured renowned French contemporary
(PA) to extend the Chingay 2020 parade the precinct stakeholders beyond the end of
installation by British-Nigerian artist Yinka artist Lionel Sabatte and was presented in the
procession to the RHB event grounds on the each edition has grown. The 2020 edition
Shonibare; Art Outreach’s IMPART collector heart of Orchard Road in January. The second
last two days of their event, where visitors added four new murals to the precinct’s
show curated by Tan Boon Hui, Director of edition travelled to Kampong Gelam in
were able to experience Chingay’s floats, outdoor collection. To date, 20 ARTWALK
the Asia Society Museum in New York and February and featured local multi-disciplinary
dancing dragons, stilt walkers and other murals located across the precinct bring to
featuring works by Odelia Tang (Singapore); artist Rizman Putra.
performances. The scenic waterfront life the history and traditions of Little India,
Bharti Ker (UK/India) and Kehinde Wiley
festivities drew tourists and locals alike with and the personal stories of its long-time
(US/Nigeria), and National Gallery’s Ng Teng
performances by local and foreign acrobats residents. The murals help to tell the precinct
Fong Roof Garden Commission featuring a
and artistes, themed exhibitions, traditional story and attract more visitors, in particular
new large-scale kinetic sculptural installation
craft displays, carnival rides, games and the younger visitors, to visit Little India.
by one of China’s foremost contemporary
nightly fireworks.
artists, Cao Fei.
SAP Field Kick-off
Meeting
SAP’s annual premier regional field sales
event and the launch pad for communicating
SAP’s business strategy brought together
2,200 delegates over 3 days. SAP partners and
sales teams from different industries
convened to hear and learn from experts
about the direction and focus for the year
ahead, and to discover and preview the latest
innovations in SAP solutions.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 66

--- PAGE 67 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
FEB 2020
Singapore Airshow 2020 Chingay 2020 ONE Championship 2020
Into its 7th edition, the biennial Singapore Chingay 2020, with its theme Colours in Taking place at the Singapore Indoor
Airshow adopted precautionary measures in Harmony, showcased Singapore’s diversity of Stadium on 28 February 2020, the event took
the early days of the COVID-19 situation, multi-ethnic cultures through Asia’s largest place behind closed doors and included a
and managed to achieve tourism receipts float parade and street performance. The number of exciting bouts that were
amounting to S$29.82 million. Recognised as Chingay parade (which means “the art of broadcasted globally.
Asia’s largest and most influential costume and masquerade” in Hokkien) filled
international aviation and defence exhibition, the streets with vibrant floats, lion dances,
the Singapore Airshow serves as a global stilt walkers and international troupes in
marketplace and networking powerhouse for colourful costumes. Parade highlights
the gathering of aviation, aerospace, and included the lighting of a 200-metre long
defence leaders and players. Over the years, string of fire crackers stretching the entire
the Singapore Airshow has become an parade route and the debut of an 108-metre
important platform for strategic conversations Flying Dragon from China.
to take place to shape the transformation of
the industry.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 67

--- PAGE 68 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
SINGAPORE VISITOR CENTRE @ ORCHARDGATEWAY TRAVEL PRECAUTIONS CONSUMER EDUCATION CAMPAIGN: TRAVEL PRECAUTIONS CONSUMER EDUCATION CAMPAIGN:
CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE 2019 CONDOR HEROES THE UNBEATABLES
TripAdvisor GOVERNMENT/INSTITUTIONAL (SILVER) GOVERNMENT/INSTITUTIONAL (SILVER)
.............................................................. APAC Effie Award 2019 APAC Effie Award 2019
MOST CREATIVE: GOVERNMENT SECTOR MARKETING (SILVER)
MOST CREATIVE: GOVERNMENT SECTOR MARKETING (SILVER)
SINGAPORE TOURISM ANALYTICS NETWORK (STAN) MARKies Awards 2019
MARKies Awards 2019
BEST SMART CITY PROJECT
(ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM, ARTS, LIBRARIES, EFFECTIVE SOCIAL STRATEGY (BRONZE)
WARC 2019 EFFECTIVE SOCIAL STRATEGY (BRONZE)
CULTURE, OPEN SPACES CATEGORY)
WARC 2019
2019 International Data Corporation (IDC) Smart City Asia
GOVERNMENT/POLITICS (FINALIST)
Pacific Awards (SCAPA)
DIGITAL/MOBILE (FINALIST) GOVERNMENT/POLITICS (FINALIST)
..............................................................
SOCIAL MEDIA VIDEO (FINALIST) DIGITAL/MOBILE (FINALIST)
AME Effectiveness Awards 2019 SOCIAL MEDIA VIDEO (FINALIST)
STB + TBWA AME Effectiveness Awards 2019
DIGITAL STRATEGY: CHARITIES, PUBLIC SERVICES
CITY OF POSSIBILITIES
AND MESSAGES (FINALIST)
DIGITAL (1 SILVER, 2 BRONZE) & DESIGN (1 BRONZE) DIGITAL STRATEGY: CHARITIES, PUBLIC SERVICES
Tangrams 2019
DIGITAL CRAFT (1 SILVER, 1 BRONZE) AND MESSAGES (FINALIST)
Spikes Asia 2019 Tangrams 2019
FILM: PRODUCT & SERVICE — FINANCE/SERVICES/
ENTERTAINMENT & LEISURE/TRAVEL (FINALIST)
BRAND EXPERIENCE & ACTIVATION (2 BRONZE, 1 FINALIST) Ad Stars 2019 FILM: PRODUCT & SERVICE (FINALIST)
DESIGN (2 BRONZE) Ad Stars 2019
DIGITAL CRAFT (2 SILVER ) BEST SOCIAL MEDIA OR WORD OF MOUTH CAMPAIGN (FINALIST)
MOBILE & DIGITAL (1 BRONZE, 1 SILVER) PMAA Dragons of Asia 2019 BEST SOCIAL MEDIA OR WORD OF MOUTH CAMPAIGN
OUTDOOR (1 SILVER, 1 FINALIST) (FINALIST)
Gong Awards 2019 PMAA Dragons of Asia 2019
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 68

--- PAGE 69 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD MARKETING HOTELS
FILM: ACTION SEEKERS MARINA BAY SANDS RESORTS WORLD SENTOSA
BEST USE OF CELEBRITY, INFLUENCERS & KOL (FINALIST) BEST USE OF INFLUENCERS (BRONZE) BEST MEETINGS/INCENTIVE ORGANISER (WINNER)
CINEMATOGRAPHY (FINALIST) The Marketing Events Awards 2019 Singapore Tourism Awards 2019
2019 Gong Awards .............................................................. ..............................................................
INTEGRATED CAMPAIGN: PASSION MADE POSSIBLE
RESORTS WORLD SENTOSA ANDAZ SINGAPORE
PUBLIC CHOICE IN THE TOURISM BOARD CATEGORY
BEST EVENT BY AN IN-HOUSE TEAM (GOLD): UNIVERSAL BEST HOTEL EXPERIENCE
FOR FILM (WINNER)
STUDIOS SINGAPORE HALLOWEEN HORROR NIGHTS 8 Singapore Tourism Awards 2019
Asia Destination Film Awards 2020
The Marketing Events Awards 2019
..............................................................
TRAVEL & TOURISM (FINALIST)
BEST WEBSITE FOR TOURIST ATTRACTION
INTEGRATED MULTIPLE MEDIUMS (FINALIST) SHANGRI-LA HOTEL LIMITED
11th TravelMole Asia Pacific Awards 2019
AME Effectiveness Awards 2019 CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE FOR HOTELS
Singapore Tourism Awards 2019
.............................................................. STB (DIGITAL) MOST CREATIVE: SOCIAL MEDIA
MARKies Awards 2019 ..............................................................
STB-SIA “UNEXPECTED JOURNEYS” + TBWA + CRAIG MELVILLE
BEST PICTURE PARKROYAL ON PICKERING, SINGAPORE
CRUISE
BEST TV SERIES ASIA’S LEADING GREEN HOTEL 2019
Los Angeles Film Awards (LAFA) 2019 World Travel Awards
MARINA BAY CRUISE CENTRE SINGAPORE
BEST CRUISE PORT 2019
Travel Weekly Readers Choice 2019
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 69

--- PAGE 70 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
HOTELS
RAFFLES SINGAPORE TOP 25 HOTELS IN SINGAPORE (#1) GRAND PARK ORCHARD
WORLD’S LEADING LANDMARK HOTEL 2019 TripAdvisor 2020 Travellers’ Choice Awards LUXURY BUSINESS HOTEL
World Travel Awards World Luxury Hotel Awards 2019
..............................................................
.............................................................. ..............................................................
FAIRMONT SINGAPORE
HOTEL FORT CANNING
FRASER SUITES SINGAPORE SINGAPORE’S LEADING CONFERENCE HOTEL 2019
WORLD’S LEADING SERVICED APARTMENTS 2019 World Travel Awards LUXURY HERITAGE HOTEL
World Luxury Hotel Awards 2019
World Travel Awards
..............................................................
..............................................................
..............................................................
MARINA BAY SANDS
NAUMI HOTEL SINGAPORE
RAMADA BY WYNDHAM SINGAPORE AT ZHONGSHAN PARK SINGAPORE’S LEADING HOTEL 2019
BEST MID-RANGE HOTEL SINGAPORE’S LEADING HOTEL SUITE — CHAIRMAN SUITE 2019 LUXURY DESIGN HOTEL
TTG Travel Awards World Travel Awards World Luxury Hotel Awards 2019
..............................................................
..............................................................
TOP HOTELS IN SINGAPORE (#10)
Condé Nast Traveler Readers’ Choice Awards 2019
OAKWOOD PREMIER OUE SINGAPORE
THE WAREHOUSE HOTEL
.............................................................. LUXURY BUSINESS SERVICED APARTMENTS
SINGAPORE’S LEADING BOUTIQUE HOTEL 2019
World Luxury Hotel Awards 2019
World Travel Awards
INTERCONTINENTAL SINGAPORE ROBERTSON QUAY ..............................................................
..............................................................
SINGAPORE’S LEADING LIFESTYLE HOTEL 2019
World Travel Awards
SHERATON TOWERS SINGAPORE HOTEL
THE FULLERTON BAY HOTEL SINGAPORE
LUXURY CONTEMPORARY HOTEL
SINGAPORE’S LEADING CITY HOTEL 2019
World Luxury Hotel Awards 2019
World Travel Awards
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 70

--- PAGE 71 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
HOTELS HOSPITALITY
SINGAPORE MARRIOTT TANG PLAZA HOTEL FORBES TRAVEL GUIDE 2020 STAR AWARD* RESORTS WORLD SENTOSA
LUXURY BUSINESS HOTEL 5-STAR BEST INTEGRATED RESORT (ASIA PACIFIC)
World Luxury Hotel Awards 2019 • Capella Singapore Travel Weekly Asia Readers’ Choice Awards 2019
• The Fullerton Bay Hotel Singapore
..............................................................
• Mandarin Oriental Singapore BEST INTEGRATED RESORT (9TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR)
TTG Travel Awards 2019
MANDARIN ORCHARD SINGAPORE
4-STAR
BEST CITY HOTEL — SINGAPORE
• The Capitol Kempinski Hotel Singapore ASIA’S LEADING THEME PARK RESORT 2019
TTG Travel Awards
• Conrad Centennial Singapore World Travel Awards
.............................................................. • Fairmont Singapore
..............................................................
• Four Seasons Hotel Singapore
SHANGRI-LA SINGAPORE • The Fullerton Hotel Singapore
BANYAN TREE SPA
BEST BUSINESS HOTEL WORLDWIDE (#2) • Marina Bay Sands
4-STAR SPA
Business Traveller Awards 2019 • Pan Pacific Singapore
Forbes Travel Guide — 2020 Star Award
• The Ritz-Carlton, Millenia Singapore
..............................................................
• Shangri-La Hotel, Singapore
WORLD’S BEST CASINO HOTEL SPA
• The St. Regis Singapore
CROWNE PLAZA CHANGI AIRPORT, SINGAPORE World Spa Awards 2019
BEST AIRPORT HOTEL (#3) RECOMMENDED ..............................................................
Business Traveller Awards 2019 • Goodwood Park Hotel
.............................................................. • InterContinental Singapore ESPA
• W Singapore, Sentosa Cove LUXURY RESORT SPA COUNTRY WINNER
THE RITZ-CARLTON, MILLENIA SINGAPORE LUXURY HAMMAM EXPERIENCE — SOUTH EAST ASIA
TOP 5 CITY HOTELS IN SINGAPORE (#1) World Luxury Spa Awards 2019
2019 Travel + Leisure World’s Best Awards
*Singapore does not practice star ratings for its hotels, and these awards are sponsored by Forbes Travel Guide, an American organisation.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 71

--- PAGE 72 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
SUSTAINABILITY
SINGAPORE BOTANIC GARDENS BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (BCA) GREEN MARK GREEN MARK AWARD FOR BUILDINGS (CERTIFIED)
URBAN SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT (#2) GREEN MARK AWARD FOR BUILDINGS (PLATINUM) • Concorde Hotel Singapore
ASEAN Sustainable Tourism Award 2020 • Amara Sanctuary Resort Sentosa • Hotel Re!
.............................................................. • Copthorne King’s Hotel Singapore
• Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel Singapore BCA GREEN MARK AWARD FOR
• Holiday Inn Express Singapore Orchard Road OCCUPANT-CENTRIC SCHEMES
THE TRAVEL CORPORATION
• City Gateway at Gardens by the Bay • Singapore Tourism Board Data Centre
GAMECHANGER AWARD
• MAX Atria @ Singapore Expo
RHT RMF Greening ASEAN Initiatives and Leadership (GAIL)
• SENTOSA Family Entertainment Centre
Sustainability Award 2019
• Singapore Tourism Court
..............................................................
• Village Hotel Albert Court
ASEAN TOURISM AWARDS 2020 (GREEN HOTELS AWARD) GREEN MARK AWARD FOR BUILDINGS (GOLDPLUS)
7TH GREEN HOTEL AWARD • Amara Singapore
• Furama City Centre, Singapore • Singapore Expo
• Mandarin Oriental, Singapore
• Novotel Singapore Clarke Quay GREEN MARK AWARD FOR BUILDINGS (GOLD)
• Swissotel Merchant Court, Singapore • Hotel Miramar Singapore
• Hotel Michael, Resorts World Sentosa • Marina Bay Cruise Centre Singapore
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 72

--- PAGE 73 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
SUSTAINABILITY
SINGAPORE HOTEL ASSOCIATION • Grand Park City Hall • Novotel Singapore (Clarke Quay)
SINGAPORE GREEN HOTEL AWARD 2019–2020 • Holiday Inn Express Singapore (Clarke Quay) • Pan Pacific Singapore
• Carlton City Hotel Singapore • Holiday Inn Singapore Atrium • PARKROYAL on Pickering
• Concorde Hotel Singapore • Hotel Jen Tanglin Singapore • Ramada and Days Hotels
• Crowne Plaza Changi Airport • Hotel Michael, Resorts World Singapore by Wyndham Singapore (Zhongshan Park)
• Four Points by Sheraton Singapore, Riverview • InterContinental Singapore • The Regent Singapore
• Furama City Centre, Singapore • JW Marriott Singapore (South Bridge) • Shangri-La Hotel Singapore
• Furama Riverfront Singapore • M Social Singapore • Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel
• Grand Copthorne Waterfront Singapore • Mandarin Orchard, Singapore • Studio M Hotel
• Grand Mercure Singapore Roxy • Mandarin Oriental, Singapore • Swissotel Merchant Court Singapore
*Singapore does not practice star ratings for its hotels, and these awards are sponsored by Forbes Travel Guide, an American organisation.
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 73

--- PAGE 74 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
ATTRACTIONS ENTERTAINMENT
GARDENS BY THE BAY UNIVERSAL STUDIOS SINGAPORE ZOUK SINGAPORE
FAN CHOICE AWARD (ASIA) #1 AMUSEMENT PARK IN ASIA (7TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR) TOP CLUB IN ASIA (#9)
GetYourGuide Awards 2019 TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice 2020 DJ Mag Top 100 Clubs 2020
..............................................................
2019 EXPERTS’ CHOICE AWARDS — BEST OF SINGAPORE BEST THEME PARK (4TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR)
TripExpert Travel Weekly Asia Readers’ Choice Awards 2019
CÉ LA VI
..............................................................
#79
BEST THEME ATTRACTION (SINGAPORE)
DJ Mag Top 100 Clubs 2020
Tripzilla Excellence Awards 2019
BATTLEBOX (THE ORIGINAL SINGAPORE WALKS®)
..............................................................
..............................................................
2019 CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE — TOP 10 EXPERIENCES
TripAdvisor
WORLD’S 50 BEST BARS 2019
TRIPADVISOR
• Atlas (#8)
BEST INBOUND TRAVEL 2019 CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
• Manhattan (#11)
Singapore Tatler 2019 — HALL OF FAME (2014-2019)
• Native (#12)
• Gardens by the Bay, Flower Dome, Cloud Forest
..............................................................
• Jigger & Pony (#29)
• Singapore Cable Car, Singapore Cable Car: Sentosa Line,
• Operation Dagger (#30)
Wings of Time
JEWEL CHANGI AIRPORT • The Old Man Singapore (#38)
• Flight Experience
SPECIAL JURY AWARD 2019
MAPIC Awards 2019
2019 CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
.............................................................. • Singapore Flyer
• Zero Latency
ADVENTURE COVE WATERPARK • National Museum of Singapore
TOP 10 WATER PARKS IN ASIA (4TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR) • Asian Civilisations Museum
TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice 2020 • Indian Heritage Centre
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 74

--- PAGE 75 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
ENTERTAINMENT TCD DINING
ASIA’S 50 BEST BARS 2019 WILDLIFE RESERVES SINGAPORE MICHELIN GUIDE SINGAPORE 2019
• Manhattan (#2) BEST THEME ATTRACTION OPERATOR 3 3-STAR
• Native (#4) (TRAVEL SERVICES CATEGORY) • Les Amis
• Atlas (#5) TTG Travel Awards 2019 • Odette
• Jigger & Pony (#9)
• Tippling Club (#11) THE MOST FAMILY FRIENDLY OVERSEAS ATTRACTION 2 2-STAR
• Gibson (#15) (CHINA TRAVELERS TOP AWARD — 2ND CONSECUTIVE YEAR) • Saint Pierre
• 28 Hong Kong Street (#21) Ctrip • Shisen Hanten
• Operation Dagger (#22) • Shoukouwa
• D.Bespoke (#25) CHARITY TRANSPARENCY AWARD FOR WRS • Waku Ghin [temporarily closed]
• Employees Only (#41) CONSERVATION FUND • Zén
• The Other Room (#46) Charity Council Singapore
UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE (IUCN)
SPECIES SURVIVAL COMMISSION OF THE INTERNATIONAL
Special Recognition
..............................................................
WILDLIFE RESERVES SINGAPORE — RIVER SAFARI
CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
TripAdvisor
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 75

--- PAGE 76 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
DINING
MICHELIN GUIDE SINGAPORE 2019 • Nouri • Jaan by Kirk Westaway (#21)
1 1-STAR • Putien (Kitchener Road) • Zén (#28)
• Alma • Rhubarb • Corner House (#42)
• Basque Kitchen by Aitor • Shinji by Kanesaka (Carlton Hotel) • Nouri (#50)
• Béni • Shinji by Kanesaka (St. Regis)
..............................................................
• Braci • Summer Palace
• Buona Terra • Summer Pavilion
KEVIN WONG, META RESTAURANT
• Burnt Ends • Sushi Ichi
WINNER
• Candlenut • Sushi Kimura
S.Pellegrino Young Chef 2019–2020 (Asia Regional Final)
• Cheek Bistro • Table65
• Chef Kang’s • Terra ..............................................................
• Corner House • The Song of India [closed]
• CUT by Wolfgang Puck • Vianney Massot Restaurant [closed] FORBES TRAVEL GUIDE — 2020 STAR AWARD
• Garibaldi .............................................................. 5 5-STAR
• Hawker Chan • Les Amis
• Hill Street Tai Hwa Pork Noodle • Waku Ghin [temporarily closed]
WORLD’S 50 BEST RESTAURANT LIST 2019
• Iggy’s
• Odette (#18)
• Imperial Treasure Fine Teochew Cuisine (Orchard) 4 4-STAR
• Jaan by Kirk Westaway .............................................................. • CUT by Wolfgang Puck
• Restaurant Jag • Iggy’s
• Jiang-Nan Chun ASIA’S 50 BEST RESTAURANT LIST 2019 • Spago Singapore
• Labyrinth • Odette (#1)
• Lei Garden • Burnt Ends (#5)
• Lerouy • Les Amis (#11)
• Ma Cuisine
• Meta Restaurant
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 76

--- PAGE 77 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
DINING
T.DINING BEST RESTAURANTS GUIDE 2019/2020 RAS EPICUREAN STAR AWARDS 2019 WORLD GOURMET AWARDS
BY SINGAPORE TATLER • Tong Le Private Dining (Best Asian Fine Dining) CHEF OF THE YEAR (MALE)
SINGAPORE’S TOP 20 RESTAURANTS • Fat Cow (Best Japanese Fine Dining) Kirk Westaway
• Burnt Ends • Crystal Jade Golden Palace (Best Chinese Fine Dining)
• Candlenut • Curate (Best Western Fine Dining) [closed] CHEF OF THE YEAR (FEMALE)
• Cloudstreet • Copper Chimney (Best Asian Casual Dining) Bettina Arguelles
• Corner House • Kinki Restaurant + Bar (Best Japanese Casual Dining)
• Esora • East Treasure (Best Chinese Casual Dining)
• Gunther’s • Bakalaki Green Taverna (Best Western Casual Dining)
• Jaan by Kirk Westaway
..............................................................
• La Dame de Pic, Raffles Singapore
• Labyrinth
• Meta Restaurant THE STRAITS TIMES AND LIANHE ZAOBAO
BEST ASIAN RESTAURANTS AWARDS 2019
• National Kitchen by Violet Oon
GOLD AWARD
• Nouri
• Hua Ting
• Odette
• Imperial Treasure Fine Teochew Cuisine
• Preludio
• Shinji by Kanesaka (Carlton Hotel)
• Rang Mahal
• Summer Pavilion
• Restaurant Jag
• Summer Pavilion
• Table65
• Vianney Massot Restaurant [closed]
• Zén
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 77

--- PAGE 78 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
MICE
ASEAN TOURISM AWARDS 2020 STB (SINGAPORE EXHIBITION & CONVENTION BUREAU) RESORTS WORLD SENTOSA
2ND ASEAN MICE VENUE AWARD TOP MEETING CITY IN ASIA-PACIFIC TOP 50 MEETING HOTELS IN APAC (#47)
(MEETING ROOM CATEGORY) (17TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR) Cvent — Top Meeting Hotels 2019
• Grand Hyatt Singapore International Congress and Convention Association
• Andaz Singapore (2018 rankings) BEST VENUE FOR CONVENTIONS, EXHIBITIONS, FESTIVALS
• Resorts World Singapore (GOLD) — AMWAY INDIA INCENTIVE MOVEMENT 2018
TOP INTERNATIONAL MEETING COUNTRY BEST VENUE FOR CONFERENCES, MEETINGS, SEMINARS
..............................................................
(FIRST TIME SINCE 2013) (BRONZE) — IBM CLOUD FAST START CONFERENCE,
TOP INTERNATIONAL MEETING CITY SAMSUNG FORUM 2019, SKIFT FORUM ASIA 2019
MARINA BAY SANDS
(11TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR) The Marketing Events Awards 2019
BEST CONVENTION & EXHIBITION CENTRE
TOP ASIA PACIFIC MEETING CITY (12TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR)
TTG Travel Awards 2019
Union of International Associations (2018 rankings) BEST VENUE FOR CONFERENCES, MEETINGS,
SEMINARS (GOLD)
TOP 50 MEETING HOTELS IN APAC (#10)
BEST BT-MICE CITY 2018 (8TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR) HRM Asia Readers’ Choice Awards 2019
Cvent — Top Meeting Hotels 2019
TTG Travel Awards 2019
BEST VENUE FOR CONFERENCES, MEETINGS,
#1 TOP ASIA PACIFIC DESTINATION (4TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR)
SEMINARS (GOLD)
Cvent Top Meeting Destination in Asia Pacific 2019
The Marketing Events Awards 2019
BEST CONVENTION & VISITOR BUREAU (ASIA)
BEST MICE DESTINATION (ASIA)
M&C Asia Stella Awards 2019
MARKETING SINGAPORE TO THE WORLD 78

--- PAGE 79 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
STB continues to uphold high standards of
corporate governance, ensuring corporate
transparency and the people’s trust in us.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 79

--- PAGE 80 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
BOARD GOVERNANCE
Responsibilities plays. A review of the Directors’ membership Table 1:
on the Board is done when his or her official
of the Board Directors’ Attendance at Board Meetings
term of appointment ends.
in FY 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020
The Board oversees and monitors STB’s The Board is given the mandate to act
organisational performance and achievement independently and to exercise objective
of strategic goals and objectives. It assumes judgment on the STB’s corporate affairs. Scheduled Board Meetings Board Workshop1
the responsibility of reviewing and approving This is to ensure that checks and balances Name of Director Number Held Number Attended Number Held Number Attended
corporate strategies, budgets and financial are instituted. Apart from Mr Keith Tan and
plans. Mr Quek Swee Kuan, the other Directors on Mr Chaly Mah 5 5 1 1
the Board are Independent Directors. Mr Keith Tan 5 5 1 1
Board Composition and A Director’s independence is re-assessed Ms Joanna Flint 5 4 1 1
Appointment at the point of each re-appointment.
Ms Audrey Kuah 5 4 1 1
Conduct of Board Affairs Mr Allen Law 5 4 1 0
There were twelve Directors on the Board
from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020 with the Mr Alvin Lim2 5 4 1 1
following movements: The Board approves financial transactions Mr Lim Eng Hwee 5 3 1 1
above a certain financial limit. A regular
Mr Lim Ming Yan2 5 4 1 1
• the retirement of Mr Alvin Lim and review of the financial authorisation and
Mr Lim Ming Yan on 31 December 2019; approval limits is performed. During each Mr Aaron Maniam3 5 1 1 0
• the appointment of Mr Aaron Maniam financial year, the Directors are requested to
Mr Prasad Menon 5 4 1 1
and Mr Ravi Thakran on 1 January 2020; complete an annual Board Evaluation
• and the reappointment of Mr Lim Eng Questionnaire that allows the STB to assess Mr Quek Swee Kuan 5 5 1 0
Hwee with effect from 1 January 2020. the overall administration of Board matters Mr Saiful Saroni 5 5 1 1
and engagements with the Board.
Mr Ravi Thakran3 5 1 1 0
The size and composition of the Board are
guided by the clauses stated in the STB Act. Under the year in review, there were a total of Mrs Wong Ai Ai 5 4 1 1
The desired outcome is the provision of a five scheduled Board meetings and a one-day
conducive environment for effective Board Workshop held overseas to discuss key 1 Typically held in November
discussions and decision-making. The process strategic issues. A record of the Directors’ 2 Mr Alvin Lim and Mr Lim Ming Yan retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2019 and were scheduled
for four Board Meetings.
for the appointment of Directors to the Board attendance at Board meetings during the 3 Mr Aaron Maniam and Mr Ravi Thakran were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2020 and were
is kept formal and transparent as this is financial year, which ended on 31 March 2020, both scheduled for one Board Meeting.
critical to the role that corporate governance is set out in Table 1.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 80

--- PAGE 81 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Corporate Governance Table 2:
Directors’ Board Committee Memberships and Attendance at Board Committee
Directors are given access to the STB’s records
Meetings in FY 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020
and information, senior management, or any
other staff of the organisation as deemed
necessary for them to effectively discharge Audit and Risk Committee Finance and Investment Governance Committee Human Resource Management
their responsibilities and to deliberate Meetings (ARC) Committee Meetings (FIC) Meetings Committee Meetings (HRMC)
meaningfully on issues discussed at Board Number Number Number Number Number Number Number
Number Held
Name of Director Held Attended Held Attended Attended Held Attended
meetings.
Mr Chaly Mah 1 1 3 3
The following Board Committees assist the
Mr Keith Tan 3 3 1 1 3 3
Board in executing its duties:
Ms Joanna Flint 3 2
• Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) Ms Audrey Kuah 4 4
• Finance and Investment Committee (FIC) Mr Allen Law 3 3
• Governance Committee
Mr Alvin Lim2 3 1
• Human Resource Management
Committee (HRMC) Mr Lim Eng Hwee 4 4
Mr Lim Ming Yan2 3 2
A record of each Director’s Board Committee
memberships and attendance at Board Mr Prasad Menon 1 1
Committee meetings during the financial Mr Quek Swee Kuan 3 3
year, which ended on 31 March 2020, is set
Mr Saiful Saroni 4 4
out in Table 2.
Mr Ravi Thakran3 3 0
Mrs Wong Ai Ai 4 4
Mr Aaron Maniam4 3 2
1 Mr Alvin Lim retired from the HRMC with effect from 31 December 2019 and was scheduled for one HRMC Meeting.
2 Mr Lim Ming Yan retired from the FIC with effect from 31 December 2019 and was scheduled for two FIC Meetings.
3 Mr Ravi Thakran was appointed to the FIC with effect from 1 January 2020 and was scheduled for one FIC Meeting.
4 Mr Aaron Maniam was appointed to the HRMC with effect from 1 January 2020 and was scheduled for two HRMC Meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 81

--- PAGE 82 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
ACCOUNTABILITY, INTERNAL CONTROLS
AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Audit and Risk In addition, the ARC also met with the of the significant internal controls. Such staffing of the Internal Audit and its
external auditors and staff of Internal Audit controls are mainly determined by the appropriate standing within the STB is
Committee
without the presence of Management, purpose of the audit and the scope of works ensured by the ARC.
during the financial year. In order to properly under the audit plan. Any material
The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) discharge its function and duties, reasonable non-compliance and/or internal control The Internal Audit adopts risk-based auditing
comprised four independent and resources are made available to the ARC. weaknesses, together with the external as its key audit assurance practice. It provides
non-executive Directors. At least two auditors’ recommendations, are addressed regional offices, major process owners and
members of the ARC have the requisite Internal Controls and made known to the ARC. policymakers of the STB, with reasonable
accounting or related financial management assurance on the effectiveness of control and
expertise to discharge their responsibilities To maintain the independence of the external governance processes in the management of
The Board ensures that Management
and duties. auditors, the ARC has reviewed the nature risks and accomplishment of objectives.
maintains a sound system of internal controls
and extent of non-audit services provided by
to safeguard the interests of stakeholders and
The responsibilities of the ARC are stated in the external auditors during the year and Whistleblowing Policy
the assets of the STB. The ARC ensures that a
the terms of reference, which include the fees paid for such services. The ARC is
review of the effectiveness of the STB’s
ensuring the adequacy of internal controls satisfied that the independence of the
internal controls – including financial, The STB has a whistleblowing policy to allow
and reviewing audit plans, audit reports and external auditors has not been impaired
operational and compliance controls, and risk employees, stakeholders and the general
audited STB Annual Financial Statements. by the provision of those services.
management – takes place annually through public to report concerns that have
Besides overseeing accountability and audit, The external auditors have also provided
the various audits performed internally and significant impact on the Board and its
the ARC also assists the Board by providing confirmation of its independence to the ARC.
through related reports issued to the ARC. operations, locally and overseas. The policy
oversight of the STB’s Enterprise Risk
For certain projects or areas where aims to encourage the reporting of such
Management Framework through regular risk Internal Audit
independent expertise is specially required matters in good faith, with the confidence
management reports from Management.
in connection with the review of controls, that persons making such reports will be
external professionals and service providers The Internal Audit reports functionally to the treated fairly and, to the fullest extent
The ARC has explicit authority to investigate
are appointed accordingly. Chairman of the ARC and administratively to possible, protected from reprisals. All
any matter within its terms of reference;
the Chief Executive. As part of its auditing, whistleblower reports, including the identity
it also has full access to, and co-operation of,
External Audit the Internal Audit is guided by the current of the whistleblower will be treated with
Management. It has direct access to the
International Professional Practices confidentiality. Reports can be lodged
Internal Audit and external auditors with full
Framework issued by the Institute of Internal directly to the Head of STB Internal Audit via
discretion to invite any Board Member or As part of the annual financial statements
Auditors. The adequacy of funding and email at ethics@stb.gov.sg.
Management staff to attend its meetings. audit, the external auditors conduct a review
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 82

--- PAGE 83 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD ANNUAL REPORT 2019-2020
Finance and Investment Governance Committee Human Resource
Committee Management Committee
The Governance Committee comprises three
Directors, including the Chairman of the
The Finance and Investment Committee (FIC) The Human Resource Management
Board. The Committee’s main focus is to
comprises four Directors. Its responsibilities Committee (HRMC) comprises four Directors,
ensure the effectiveness of the Board and
are broadly categorised into Finance and including the Chairman of the Board.
Board Committees. To ensure that the Board
Fund Management. It endorses STB’s work Its responsibilities include providing guidance
has the appropriate balance of skills and
plans and budget before submission to the on leadership development and talent
experience to deal with the strategic issues
Board for approval. The Committee also management matters; reviewing
and challenges facing the STB, the
approves tenders, expenditures and proposed compensation policies and structures to
Governance Committee reviews the
changes to the STB’s Financial Regulations ensure competitiveness; endorsing the
appointments and renewals of Directors, and
(except for the government procurement promotion of officers to or within Salary
provides recommendations where possible.
procedures and virements). It approves the Grade 15 and above (i.e. the equivalent of
It also assumes the responsibility for
STB’s investment policy, objectives, Superscale Grades in the Civil Service);
conducting an annual evaluation of the
guidelines, strategies and appointment of the assessment of the STB’s performance
Board’s effectiveness.
external fund manager(s) in respect of surplus report to the Board Members; and reviewing
funds available for financial investments and and approving recommendations on
reviews these matters at least once a year. disciplinary matters pertaining to senior
The Committee also ensures that financial members of the Management.
investments are conducted in compliance
with statutory legislation and government
directives.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 83

--- PAGE 84 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2020

--- PAGE 85 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C O N T E N T S
PAGE
Statement by Singapore Tourism Board 1
Independent auditor’s report 2 - 5
Statement of financial position 6
Statement of comprehensive income 7
Statement of changes in equity 8
Statement of cash flows 9
Notes to financial statements 10 - 39

--- PAGE 87 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”)
which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 March 2020, and the statement of comprehensive
income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to
the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 6 to 39.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Board are properly drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, Act 5 of 2018 (“PSG Act”), the Singapore
Tourism Board Act, Cap 305B (“STB Act”) and Statutory Board Financial Reporting Standards (“SB-FRS”) so
as to present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Board as at 31 March 2020 and the
financial performance, changes in equity and cash flows of the Board for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (“SSAs”). Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Board in accordance with the Accounting and
Corporate Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants
and Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Information Other than Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Statement by
Singapore Tourism Board set out on page 1, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
2

--- PAGE 88 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial
Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and the fair presentation of the financial statements in
accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and SB-FRS, and for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
A statutory board is constituted based on its act and its dissolution requires Parliament’s approval.
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Board’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless there is intention to wind up the Board or for the Board to cease
operations.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Board’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Board’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Board’s ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Board to cease to continue as a
going concern.
3

--- PAGE 89 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
that we identify during our audit.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Opinion
In our opinion:
(a) the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets by the
Board during the year are, in all material respects, in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act,
STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the
Board; and
(b) proper accounting and other records have been kept, including records of all assets of the Board
whether purchased, donated or otherwise.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with SSAs. Our responsibilities under those standards are further
described in theAuditor’s Responsibilities for the Compliance Audit section of our report. We are independent
of the Board in accordance with the ACRA Code together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on management’s compliance.
Responsibilities of Management for Compliance with Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Management is responsible for ensuring that the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the
acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the
requirements of any other written law applicable to moneys of or managed by the Board. This responsibility
includes monitoring related compliance requirements relevant to the Board, and implementing internal
controls as management determines are necessary to enable compliance with the requirements.
4

--- PAGE 90 ---

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Compliance Audit
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s compliance based on our audit of the financial
statements. We planned and performed the compliance audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets, are in accordance
with the provisions of the PSG Act, STB Act and the requirements of any other written law applicable to
moneys of or managed by the Board.
Our compliance audit includes obtaining an understanding of the internal control relevant to the receipts,
expenditure, investment of moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets; and assessing the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements from non-compliance, if any, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Board’s internal control. Because of the inherent limitations
in any internal control system, non-compliances may nevertheless occur and not be detected.
Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants
Singapore
20 August 2020
5

--- PAGE 91 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 March 2020
Note 2020 2019
$’000 $’000
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 6 191,992 100,566
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 7 39,825 29,241
Finance lease receivable 8 725 682
Financial assets under fund management 9 245,118 256,204
Total current assets 477,660 386,693
Non-current assets
Prepayments 7 103 137
Finance lease receivable 8 17,132 17,857
Property, plant and equipment 10 290,677 599,152
Right-of-use assets 11 265,185 -
Intangible assets 12 12,761 9,301
Other investments 13 2,076 2,076
Other assets 150 150
Total non-current assets 588,084 628,673
Total assets 1,065,744 1,015,366
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 89,177 96,842
Advances and deposits received 15 10,238 12,166
Deferred long-term lease income - 58
Lease liabilities 17 15,771 -
Total current liabilities 115,186 109,066
Non-current liabilities
Accruals and other payables 14 61 38,298
Deferred capital grants 16 197,796 212,979
Lease liabilities 17 34,354 -
Total non-current liabilities 232,211 251,277
Equity
Share capital 18 566,584 562,565
Accumulated surplus 151,687 92,382
Revaluation reserve 76 76
Total equity 718,347 655,023
Total liabilities and equity 1,065,744 1,015,366
Net assets of Trust and Agency Funds 19 355,203 31,147
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
6

--- PAGE 92 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Year ended 31 March 2020
Note 2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Operating income 20 41,889 31,226
Less: operating expenses
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 (25,157) (36,764)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 (30,440) -
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 (6,013) (8,049)
Employee benefit expenses 21 (86,614) (80,644)
Other operating expenses (164,214) (172,714)
(312,438) (298,171)
Non-operating income and expenses
Investment income 22 4,564 9,726
Other income 23 89,585 1,099
Other expenses 24 (2,789) (117)
91,360 10,708
Operating deficit before Government grants (179,189) (256,237)
Government grants
Operating grants 222,427 220,795
Amortisation of deferred capital grants 16 16,067 10,078
238,494 230,873
Net surplus/(deficit) before contribution to
Consolidated Fund 59,305 (25,364)
Contribution to Consolidated Fund 25 - -
Surplus/(Loss) for the year, representing total
comprehensive gain/(loss) for the year 59,305 (25,364)
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
7

--- PAGE 93 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Year ended 31 March 2020
Share Accumulated Revaluation
capital surplus reserve Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance as at 1 April 2018 560,305 117,746 76 678,127
Equity injections (Note 18) 2,260 - - 2,260
Loss for the year, representing total
comprehensive loss for the year - (25,364) - (25,364)
Balance as at 31 March 2019 562,565 92,382 76 655,023
Equity injections (Note 18) 4,019 - - 4,019
Surplus for the year, representing total
comprehensive gain for the year - 59,305 - 59,305
Balance as at 31 March 2020 566,584 151,687 76 718,347
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
8

--- PAGE 94 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Year ended 31 March 2020
Note 2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Operating activities
Surplus/(Loss) for the year 59,305 (25,364)
Adjustments for:
Operating grants (222,427) (220,795)
Allowance of credit losses - 117
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 25,157 36,764
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 32,470 -
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 6,013 8,049
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 73 (1)
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets (88,236) -
Interest income (9,240) (8,992)
Deferred long-term lease (58) (117)
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 16 (16,067) (10,078)
Fair value loss/(gain) on financial assets under fund
management 3,083 (2,512)
Finance lease income (1,694) (1,322)
Lease interest expense 2,712 -
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (208,909) (224,251)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables (222) (918)
Advances and deposits received (1,928) (1,848)
Accruals and other payables 1,260 (306)
Cash used in operations (209,799) (227,323)
Interest received 10,934 10,314
Interest paid (2,712) -
Net cash used in operating activities (201,577) (217,009)
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4,422) (75,487)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (9,473) (9,527)
Proceeds from disposal of right-of-use assets and
property, plant and equipment 90,942 22
Repayment of finance lease receivables 682 641
Investment under fund management 8,003 30,786
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 85,732 (53,565)
Financing activities
Operating grants received 212,099 210,539
Capital grants received 16 884 73,875
Equity injection 18 4,019 2,260
Repayment of lease liabilities (9,731) -
Net cash from financing activities 207,271 286,674
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 91,426 16,100
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6 100,566 84,466
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6 191,992 100,566
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
9

--- PAGE 95 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
1 GENERAL
The Singapore Tourism Board (the “Board”), a Singapore statutory board under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry (“MTI”), is established in the Republic of Singapore under the Singapore Tourism Board
Act, Cap 305B (the “Act”) with its registered office and principal place of operations at Tourism Court,
1 Orchard Spring Lane, Singapore 247729.
The primary functions and duties of the Board are:
(i) To develop and promote Singapore as a travel and tourist destination;
(ii) To advise the Government on matters relating to travel and tourism;
(iii) To enhance the travel and tourism sector’s contribution to the Singapore economy; and
(iv) To exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of such tourism enterprises as the Board
may determine.
These financial statements are presented in Singapore dollar, which is the Board’s functional currency.
All values presented are rounded to the nearest thousand (“$’000”), unless indicated otherwise.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
The financial statements of the Board for the year ended 31 March 2020 were authorised for issue by
the Board of Directors on 20 August 2020.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost basis, except as disclosed
in the accounting policies below, and are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of PSG Act, STB
Act and SB-FRS, including Interpretations of SB-FRS (“INT SB-FRS”) and SB-FRS Guidance Notes.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for services.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price
is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of
an asset or a liability, the Board takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability which
market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement
date.
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in the financial statements is determined
on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of
SB-FRS 102 Share-based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of SB-FRS 17 Leases,
and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net
realisable value in SB-FRS 2 Inventories or value in use in SB-FRS 36 Impairment of Assets.
10

--- PAGE 96 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
2.2 Adoption of new and revised standards
On 1 April 2019, the Board adopted all the new and revised SB-FRSs, INT SB-FRS and
SB-FRS Guidance Notes that are effective from that date and relevant to its operations. The adoption
of these standards do not result in changes to the Board’s accounting policies and has no material
effect on the amounts reported for the current or prior year except as disclosed below.
SB-FRS 116 Leases
SB-FRS 116 introduces new or amended requirements with respect to lease accounting. It introduces
significant changes to lessee accounting by removing the distinction between operating and finance
lease and requiring the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at commencement for
all leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets when such recognition
exemptions are adopted. In contrast to lessee accounting, the requirements for lessor accounting have
remained largely unchanged. The impact of the adoption of SB-FRS 116 on the Board’s financial
statements is described below.
The date of initial application of SB-FRS 116 for the Board is 1 April 2019.
The Board has applied SB-FRS 116 using the modified retrospective approach which:
• Measures the right-of-use asset at amount equal to liability; and
• Does not permit restatement of comparatives, which continue to be presented under SB-FRS 17
Leases and INT SB-FRS 104 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease.
(a) Impact of the new definition of a lease
The Board has made use of the practical expedient available on the transition to SB-FRS 116 not
to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease. Accordingly, the definition of a lease in
accordance with SB-FRS 17 and INT SB-FRS 104 will continue to be applied to those leases
entered or changed before 1 April 2019.
The change in definition of a lease mainly relates to the concept of control. SB-FRS 116 determines
whether a contract contains a lease on the basis of whether the customer has the right to control
the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. This is in contrast
to the focus on ‘risks and rewards’ in SB-FRS 17 and INT SB-FRS 104.
The Board applies the definition of a lease and related guidance set out in SB-FRS 116 to all
lease contracts entered into or modified on or after 1 April 2019 (whether it is a lessor or a
lessee in the lease contract). The new definition in SB-FRS 116 does not significantly change the
scope of contracts that meet the definition of a lease for the Board.
11

--- PAGE 97 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
(b) Impact on lessee accounting
Former operating leases
SB-FRS 116 changes how the Board accounts for leases previously classified as operating leases
under SB-FRS 17, which were off-balance-sheet.
Applying SB-FRS 116, for all leases, the Board:
(a) Recognises right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the statements of financial position,
initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, with the
right-of-use asset adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments in
accordance with SB-FRS 116.C8(b)(ii);
(b) Recognises depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities in the
statement of comprehensive income; and
(c) Separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion (presented within financing
activities) and interest (presented within operating activities) in the statement of cash
flows.
Lease incentives (e.g. rent-free period) are recognised as part of the measurement of the right
of-use assets and lease liabilities whereas under SB-FRS 17 they resulted in the recognition of
a lease incentive liability, amortised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis.
Under SB-FRS 116, right-of-use assets are tested for impairment in accordance with
SB-FRS 36 Impairment of Assets.
For short-term leases (lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low-value assets
(which includes tablets and personal computers, small items of office furniture and telephones),
the Board has opted to recognise a lease expense on a straight-line basis as permitted by
SB-FRS 116. This expense is presented within other operating expenses in the statement of
comprehensive income.
The Board has used the following practical expedients when applying the modified retrospective
approach to leases previously classified as operating leases applying SB-FRS 17.
• The Board has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities to leases
for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial application.
• The Board has excluded initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset
at the date of initial application.
• The Board has used hindsight when determining the lease term when the contract contains
options to extend or terminate the lease.
12

--- PAGE 98 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
(c) Financial impact of initial application of SB-FRS 116
The weighted average lessee’s incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities
recognised in the statement of financial position on 1 April 2019 is 3.2% per annum.
The following table shows the operating lease commitments disclosed applying SB-FRS 17 at
31 March 2019 discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application
and the lease liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position at the date of initial
application.
2020
$’000
Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 31 March 2019 (Note 27) 15,367
Add: Cancellable leases excluded from
operating lease commitments disclosure 3,098
Less: Short-term leases and low value asset leases recognised as expenses (2,140)
LLess: Non-lease components and option period of leases (2,506)
Less: Effect of discounting the above amounts (1,125)
Lease liabilities recognised as at 1 April 2019 12,694
Impact on Lessor Accounting
SB-FRS 116 does not change substantially how a lessor accounts for leases. Under SB-FRS 116,
a lessor continues to classify leases as either finance leases or operating leases and account for those
two types of leases differently. However, SB-FRS 116 has changed and expanded the disclosures
required, in particular regarding how a lessor manages the risks arising from its residual interest in
leased assets.
Under SB-FRS 116, an intermediate lessor accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two
separate contracts. The intermediate lessor is required to classify the sublease as a finance or
operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease (and not by reference
to the underlying asset as was the case under SB-FRS 17).
13

--- PAGE 99 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
2.3 Standards issued but not yet effective
Management has assessed and is of the view that the adoption of the new/revised SB-FRSs, INT SB-
FRSs and amendments to SB-FRS that are issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial
statements but effective only in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial
statements in the period of their initial adoption.
2.4 Financial instruments
Financial assets
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial assets are recognised when, and only when the Board becomes party to the contractual
provisions of the instruments. All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured in their
entirety at either amortised cost or fair value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
(i) Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at amortised
cost:
• The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
• The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are derecognised or impaired,
and through the amortisation process.
(ii) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”):
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
14

--- PAGE 100 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
Equity instruments designated as at FVTOCI
The Board has made an irrevocable election to designate its investment in unquoted equity
shares that are not held for trading as at FVTOCI on initial application of SB-FRS 109
(see Note 13). The Board is of the view that the cost of the unquoted equity shares represents
the fair value of the investment.
Investment in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction
costs. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes
in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments
revaluation reserve. The cumulative gain or loss will not be reclassified to profit or loss on
disposal of the equity investments, instead, they will be transferred to accumulated surplus.
Dividends on these investments in equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the
Board’s right to receive the dividends is established, unless the dividends clearly represent a
recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
By default, all other financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or
loss (“FVTPL”).
Despite the aforegoing, the Board may make the following irrevocable election/designation at
initial recognition of a financial asset:
• the Board may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity
investment in other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met; and
• the Board may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or
FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value as at each reporting date, with any fair
value gains or losses recognised in profit or loss to the extent they are not part of a designated
hedging relationship. Financial assets at FVTPL include the Board’s investment portfolio of quoted
debt instruments, quoted equity securities and derivative financial instruments under fund
management. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest
earned on the financial assets and is included in the “investment income” (Note 22).
Impairment of financial assets
The Board recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt instruments not
held at FVTPL. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Board expects to receive, discounted at an
approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows
from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit
exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss
allowance is recognised for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective
of timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
15

--- PAGE 101 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
For debtors, the Board applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Board does
not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each
reporting date. The ECLs on these financial assets are estimated based on the Board’s historical credit
loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
environment which could affect debtors’ ability to pay.
The Board considers a financial asset in default when internal or external information indicates that
the Board is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full. A financial asset is written
off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Board derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the
asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the asset to another party. On derecognition, any difference between the carrying amount
and the sum of proceeds received is recognised in the profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments issued by the Board are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a
financial liability and an equity instrument.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Board after
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Board are recognised at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
Pursuant to the Finance Circular Minute (“FCM”) No. 26/2008 on Capital Management Framework
(“CMF”), equity injection from the Singapore Government (the “Government”) is recorded as share
capital.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method
or at FVTPL. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised,
and through the amortisation process.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured
at fair value. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Board derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Board’s obligations are
discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial
liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable, including any non-cash assets transferred
or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
16

--- PAGE 102 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
2.5 Leases (before 1 April 2019)
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Board as lessor
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the
Board’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Board’s net investment outstanding in respect of the
leases.
Lease income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant
lease unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which use benefit
derived from the leased asset is diminished. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging
an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised as an expense
over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income. Contingent rentals arising under operating
leases are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
The Board as lessee
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to expense on a straight-line basis over the term
of the relevant lease unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in
which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under
operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are
recognised as a liability. The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental
expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the
time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Leases (from 1 April 2019)
The Board assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Board
recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease
term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets. For these leases, the Board recognises the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from
the leased assets are consumed.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be
readily determined, the Authority uses the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lessee.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise of:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives
17

--- PAGE 103 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on
the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made.
The Board remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related
right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase
option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments
using a revised discount rate;
• the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment
under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured by discounting
the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease payments change is
due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used); or
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease,
in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using
a revised discount rate.
The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability,
lease payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Right-of-use assets are calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their depreciable amounts
over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the underlying assets as follows:
Leasehold land - 3 to 99 years
Commercial units - 2 to 8 years
Residential units - 2 to 4 years
Office equipment - 2 to 5 years
Motor vehicles - 3 years
The right-of-use assets are presented as a separate line in the statement of financial position.
The Board applies SB-FRS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for
any identified impairment loss accordingly.
Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the
lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the
period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs and are included in the line
‘Other operating expenses’ in the statement of comprehensive income.
As a practical expedient, SB-FRS 116 permits a lessee not to separate non-lease components,
and instead account for any lease and associated non-lease components as a single arrangement.
The Board has not used this practical expedient. For a contract that contains a lease component and
one or more additional lease or non-lease components, the Board allocates the consideration in the
contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the lease component
and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components.
18

--- PAGE 104 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
The Board as lessor
Leases for which the Board is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee,
the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When the Board is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two
separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease by reference to the
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant
lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the
carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the
Board’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Board’s net investment outstanding in respect of the
leases.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment
Measurement
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment initially recognised includes its purchase price
and any cost that is directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Board.
Depreciation
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are available for use.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method to allocate their depreciable amounts over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Buildings - 10 to 99 years
Building improvements - 4 to 7 years
Furniture, fittings and equipment - 2 to 10 years
Motor vehicles - 5 years
Electrical installation and air-conditioners - 3 to 7 years
Infrastructure - 4 to 30 years
The residual values, estimated useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed at each financial
year-end, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. The effects of any revision of the residual values
and useful lives are included in income or expenditure when the changes arise.
19

--- PAGE 105 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
Derecognition
On disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment, the difference between the
disposal proceeds and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.
2.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation (where they have finite useful
lives) and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line
method on the following bases:
Computer software - 3 to 5 years
Intangible assets under development are not depreciated until they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and amortisation method of intangible assets are reviewed
at the end of each reporting period with the effect of any changes in estimates accounted for on a
prospective basis.
An item of intangible assets is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in
the profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Board reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial assets
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount
of an individual asset, the Board estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit)
is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised immediately as income, unless the asset is valued at revalued amount, in which
case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
20

--- PAGE 106 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
2.9 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Board has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
of a past event, it is probable that the Board will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the
present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle
the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
2.10 Trust and agency funds
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2.11 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Board will comply
with the conditions attaching to them and the grants will be received. Government grants whose
primary condition is that the Board should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire non-current assets
are recognised as deferred capital grant in the statement of financial position and transferred to income
or expenditure on a systematic and rational basis over the useful lives of the related assets.
Other government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with
the costs for which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants that
are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving
immediate financial support to the Board with no future related costs are recognised in income or
expenses in the period in which they become receivable.
2.12 Income recognition
Income is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes
amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Events-related income
Events-related income is recognised over time when the Board satisfies a performance obligation by
transferring control of a service to the customer. The amount of income recognised is the amount of
the transaction price allocated to each satisfied performance obligation. Transaction price is the
amount of consideration in the contract to which the Board expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring the promised services.
Lease income
The Board’s policy for recognition of income from operating leases is described in Note 2.5 above.
21

--- PAGE 107 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
Interest income
Interest income is recognised over time, on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
2.13 Defined contribution plans
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense when employees
have rendered the services entitling them to the contributions. Payments made to state-managed
retirement benefit schemes, such as the Singapore Central Provident Fund, are dealt with as payments
to defined contribution plans where the Board’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to those
arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
2.14 Employee leave entitlement
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is
made for the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to
the end of the reporting period.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances, fixed deposit with financial institutions
and cash balances placed with the Accountant-General’s Department (“AGD”) which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value.
2.16 Foreign currency transactions and translation
In preparing the financial statements, transactions in currencies other than the Board’s functional
currency are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling
at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the application of the Board’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, management is
required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future
periods.
Management is of the opinion that there are no critical judgements or significant estimates that would
have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
22

--- PAGE 108 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
4 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, FINANCIAL RISKS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Categories of financial instruments
The following table sets out the financial instruments as at the end of the reporting period:
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Financial assets
Financial assets at amortised cost:
Deposits and other receivables excluding
prepayments (Note 7) 36,224 23,190
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 191,992 100,566
Cash balances under fund management (Note 9) 10,732 3,960
Others under funds management (Note 9) 43 93
Finance lease receivables (Note 8) 17,857 18,539
256,848 146,348
Financial assets measured at FVTPL (Note 9) 234,343 252,151
Other investments (Note 13) 2,076 2,076
493,267 400,575
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Accruals and other payables (Note 14) 89,648 144,472
Lease liabilities (Note 17) 50,125 -
139,773 144,472
(b) Financial risk management policies and objectives
The Board’s key financial risks include market risk (including interest rate risk, currency risk and
market price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
There has been no change to the Board’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in
which it manages and measures the risk. Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity
analysis indicated below.
The Board does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
23

--- PAGE 109 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
(i) Foreign exchange risk management
The Board has exposure to foreign currency risk as a result of its externally managed
investments in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
For the externally managed investments, the fund managers use foreign exchange
derivative financial instruments when necessary to reduce exposure to fluctuation in
foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect
any reasonable possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates to have a significant
impact on the Board’s operations and cash flows.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
The Board’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to its deposits with AGD,
and quoted debt securities as disclosed in Notes 6 and 9 respectively.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis has not been presented as management do not expect
any reasonable possible changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the
Board’s operations and cash flows.
(iii) Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations
resulting in financial loss to the Board. In managing credit risk exposure, credit review and
approval processes as well as monitoring mechanisms are applied.
The Board’s major classes of financial assets are cash and deposits with AGD, cash and
bank balances, other receivables, and financial assets held at fair value through profit or
loss. The maximum exposure to credit risk for each class of financial assets is the carrying
amount of that class of financial instruments presented on the statement of financial
position.
(iv) Market price risk management
The Board is exposed to market risks arising from quoted equity securities, quoted debt
instruments and derivative investments designated as fair value through profit or loss
(FVTPL), managed by fund managers. The Board diversifies its portfolio in accordance with
its investment mandate to manage exposure to fluctuations in market prices.
Further details of these investments can be found in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Market price sensitivity
The sensitivity analyses have been determined based on the exposure to market price
risks at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of the FVTPL investments, if the underlying market prices had been
2% higher/lower, the surplus of the Board will increase/decrease by $4,687,000
(2019 : loss of the Board would decrease/increase by $5,043,000). The Board’s sensitivity
to equity prices has not changed significantly from the prior year.
24

--- PAGE 110 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
(v) Liquidity risk management
The Board manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient funds to enable it to meet its
operational requirements.
The Board’s objective is to maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate
by management to finance the Board’s operations. The investment portfolio comprises
mainly quoted debt securities with resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity.
The Board has non-derivative financial assets as shown on the statement of financial
position under financial assets under fund management which are substantially managed
externally by professional fund managers. The non-derivative financial assets comprise
investments in debt securities which are mainly quoted (as disclosed under Note 9).
The non-derivative financial assets may be liquidated readily when required.
The Board does not have any significant exposure to liquidity risk as at the end of each
reporting period.
(vi) Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Board classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has
the following levels:
a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1);
b) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
(Level 2); and
c) input for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
Quoted equity securities and quoted debt instruments (Note 9) are measured based on
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Unquoted equity shares (Note 13) are measured based
on Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The Board is of the view that the cost of the unquoted
equity shares represents the fair value of the investment.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the
year.
Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities
recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
25

--- PAGE 111 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
(c) Capital risk management policies and objectives
The Board manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while
fulfilling its objective as a statutory board.
The Board is required to comply with the Capital Management Framework for Statutory Boards
detailed in Finance Circular Minute M26/2008, including the need to declare annual dividends to
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in return for the equity injection.
The capital structure of the Board consists of accumulated surplus and capital account.
The overall strategy of the Board remains unchanged from the previous financial year.
5 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(a) Transactions with Ministries and Government Agencies
For the purposes of these financial statements, related parties refer to Ministries, Organ of States
and other Statutory Boards. The transactions with Government-related entities other than Ministries,
Organ of States, and other Statutory Boards, are not disclosed unless there are circumstances
to indicate that these transactions are of interest to the readers of the financial statements.
Some of the Board’s transactions and arrangements are with related parties and the effect of
these on the basis determined between the parties is reflected in these financial statements.
The balances are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand unless otherwise stated.
Other than as disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following significant transactions
took place between the Board and its related parties during the financial year:
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
MTI
Services and expenses paid to MTI 697 3,786
Services rendered to MTI (472,038) (138,373)
Other Ministries and Government Agencies
Purchases and services paid to other ministries 163 351
Purchases and services paid to other government agencies 1,376,370 99,231
Expenses made on behalf by other ministries 949 127
Expenses made on behalf by other government agencies 2,146 1,969
Computer and IT related expenses 5,131 3,879
Services rendered to other ministries (103,701) (218)
Services rendered to other government agencies (1,752) (2,440)
26

--- PAGE 112 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
(b) Board members and key management personnel remuneration
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Remuneration and other short-term benefits 20,274 19,217
Contributions to defined contribution plan 1,226 1,184
21,500 20,401
The above includes Board members’ allowance of $158,468 (2019 : $141,593).
6 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Cash and bank deposits (i) 191,992 100,566
(i) This included cash and bank deposits placed with Accountant General’s Department (“AGD”)
under the Centralised Liquidity Management Scheme (“CLM”) under AGD Circular 4/2009. The
CLM Scheme includes placement of cash deposits with approved financial institutions. Deposits,
which are interest-bearing, are centrally managed by AGD and are available to the Board upon
request and earn interest at the average rate of 1.93% (2019 : 1.76%) per annum.
7 DEPOSITS, PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Deposits 1,689 1,588
Prepayments 3,704 6,188
Other receivables:
- Operating grants 20,584 10,256
- Ministries and other government agencies 1,635 1,755
- Others 12,433 9,708
40,045 29,495
Less: Allowance for credit losses (117) (117)
Net deposits, prepayments and other receivables 39,928 29,378
Less: Non-current prepayments (103) (137)
Deposits, prepayments and other receivables presented as
current assets 39,825 29,241
Allowance for credit losses has been measured at an amount equal to ECL. Apart from the above,
no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the remaining receivables after taking into account
the historical default experience in which the debtors operate, together with the value of deposits.
There has been no significant change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made
during the current reporting period.
27

--- PAGE 113 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
Movement in the allowance for credit losses:
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year 117 2
Increase in allowance recognised in profit or loss - 117
Bad debts write off - (2)
Balance at end of year 117 117
8 FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLE
The Board entered into an agreement with a third party company incorporated in Singapore to lease
a parcel of land granted to the Board by the Singapore Land Authority for the purpose of a
tourism-related project. The average discount rate implicit in the lease is 6.4% (2019 : 6.4%) per
annum.
2020
$’000
Amount receivable under finance lease:
Year 1 1,825
Year 2 1,825
Year 3 1,825
Year 4 1,825
Year 5 1,825
Year 6 onwards 18,711
Gross investment in the lease 27,836
Less: Unearned finance income (9,979)
Present value of minimum lease receivable 17,857
Net investment in the lease analysed as:
Recoverable within 12 months 725
Recoverable after 12 months 17,132
17,857
The following table presents the amounts included in profit or loss.
2020
$’000
Finance income on the net investment in finance lease 1,144
The Board’s finance lease arrangements do not include variable payments.
28

--- PAGE 114 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
Future minimum lease receivable under the financial lease together with the present value of the
minimum lease receivable is as follows:
Future Present value
minimum of minimum
lease lease
receivables receivables
2019 2019
$’000 $’000
Amount receivable under finance lease:
Within one year 1,825 682
In the second to fifth year inclusive 7,302 3,192
After fifth year 20,535 14,665
29,662 18,539
Less: Unearned finance income (11,123) -
Present value of minimum lease receivable 18,539 18,539
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months
(shown under current receivables) (682)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 17,857
9 FINANCIAL ASSETS UNDER FUND MANAGEMENT
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Financial assets (liabilities)
Marketable investments, at market value:
- Quoted debt instruments 218,889 233,090
- Quoted equity securities 17,860 18,821
- Derivative financial instruments (2,406) 240
Financial assets at FVTPL 234,343 252,151
Add (Less):
- Cash balances 10,732 3,960
- Others 43 93
Total financial assets 245,118 256,204
Amounts under fund management are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
with the fair value movements taken to profit or loss. The fair values of these investments are based
on the closing market price on the last market day of the financial year.
As part of the Board’s strategy to manage foreign currency risk, derivative financial instruments such
as foreign currency futures and forward contracts were entered into by fund managers appointed by
the Board. The gross value of financial assets under fund management denominated in United States
dollar amounted to $138.3m [net of derivatives : $25.8m] (2019 : $137.1m [net of derivatives : $20.1m])
at the end of the reporting period.
During the financial year, fair value loss [net of foreign currency exchange gain] relating to financial
assets under fund management amounting to $2.9m (2019 : fair value gain of $2.2m [net of foreign
currency exchange loss]) was recorded.
29

--- PAGE 115 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Furniture, Electrical
Leasehold Building fittings and Motor installation and Capital work-
land Buildings improvements equipment vehicles air-conditioners Infrastructure in-progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2018 194,583 469,358 28,860 16,178 1,382 29,062 48,739 833 788,995
Additions 50,000 65,885 2,097 2,311 68 2,001 281 6 122,649
Reclassifications - 833 - - - - - (833) -
Disposals/Written off - - - (367) (103) - (31) - (501)
At 31 March 2019 244,583 536,076 30,957 18,122 1,347 31,063 48,989 6 911,143
Adoption of SB-FRS 116 (244,583) (65,836) - - - - - - (310,419)
As at 1 April 2019 - 470,240 30,957 18,122 1,347 31,063 48,989 6 600,724
Additions - - 1,851 358 - 141 400 1,672 4,422
Reclassification - - - - - 6 - (6) -
Disposals/Written off - - (1,079) (2,676) (52) (132) - - (3,939)
At 31 March 2020 - 470,240 31,729 15,804 1,295 31,078 49,389 1,672 601,207
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2018 14,460 162,299 20,826 13,655 942 21,126 42,399 - 275,707
Depreciation 5,021 21,108 2,984 1,837 198 4,078 1,538 - 36,764
Disposals/Written off - - - (346) (103) - (31) - (480)
At 31 March 2019 19,481 183,407 23,810 15,146 1,037 25,204 43,906 - 311,991
Adoption of SB-FRS 116 (19,481) (3,292) - - - - - - (22,773)
As at 1 April 2019 - 180,115 23,810 15,146 1,037 25,204 43,906 - 289,218
Depreciation - 16,444 3,294 1,644 179 2,058 1,538 - 25,157
Disposals/Written off - - (1,010) (2,672) (31) (132) - - (3,845)
At 31 March 2020 - 196,559 26,094 14,118 1,185 27,130 45,444 - 310,530
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2020 - 273,681 5,635 1,686 110 3,948 3,945 1,672 290,677
At 31 March 2019 225,102 352,669 7,147 2,976 310 5,859 5,083 6 599,152
(a) Included in buildings and infrastructure are tourism assets held by the Board for the purpose of tourism promotion/development.
(b) As at 31 March 2019, leasehold land amounting to $47,162,000 remained unpaid and was included in accruals and other payables (Note 14).
30

--- PAGE 116 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold Commercial Residential Office Motor
land units units equipment vehicles Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2019 247,013 74,185 1,783 132 - 323,113
Additions - 3,422 2,556 15 19 6,012
Adjustments - (17) - - - (17)
Disposals/Written off (12,436) (68) (46) - - (12,550)
At 31 March 2020 234,577 77,522 4,293 147 19 316,558
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2019 19,481 3,292 - - - 22,773
Depreciation 13,898 16,497 2,030 43 2 32,470
Disposals/Written off (3,870) - - - - (3,870)
As at 31 March 2020 29,509 19,789 2,030 43 2 51,373
Carrying amount:
As at 31 March 2020 205,068 57,733 2,263 104 17 265,185
The Board leases several assets including leasehold land, commercial units, residential units,
office equipment and motor vehicles. The lease terms range from 2 - 99 years. Included in leasehold
land and commercial units are tourism assets held by the Board for the purpose of tourism
promotion/development.
Approximately one third of the leases for property, plant and equipment expired in the current financial
year. The expired contracts were either replaced by new leases for identical underlying assets or
extended through exercising the extension options. This resulted in additions to right-of-use assets of
$6,012,000.
Depreciation of residential units amounting to $2,030,000 is shown as employee benefits expenses
under Note 21 while the remaining depreciation of right-of-use assets of $30,440,000 is shown as a
separate line in the statement of comprehensive income.
31

--- PAGE 117 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Development
Computer projects-in-
software progress Total
$’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:
At 1 April 2018 18,965 129 19,094
Additions 8,856 671 9,527
Reclassifications 129 (129) -
At 31 March 2019 27,950 671 28,621
Additions 8,185 1,288 9,473
Reclassifications 655 (655) -
Disposals/Written off (6,084) - (6,084)
At 31 March 2020 30,706 1,304 32,010
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 April 2018 11,271 - 11,271
Amortisation for the year 8,049 - 8,049
At 31 March 2019 19,320 - 19,320
Amortisation for the year 6,013 - 6,013
Disposals/Written off (6,084) - (6,084)
At 31 March 2020 19,249 - 19,249
Carrying amounts:
At 31 March 2020 11,457 1,304 12,761
At 31 March 2019 8,630 671 9,301
13 OTHER INVESTMENTS
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Unquoted equity shares at FVTOCI 2,076 2,076
32

--- PAGE 118 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
14 ACCRUALS AND OTHER PAYABLES
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Accruals 60,039 61,625
Other payables:
- Ministries and other government agencies 11,157 58,242
- Others 18,042 15,273
Total accruals and other payables 89,238 135,140
Less: Amount due for settlement after 12 months (61) (38,298)
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 89,177 96,842
Total accruals and other payables 89,238 135,140
Add:
Advances and deposits received (Note 15) 10,238 12,166
Less:
Provision for employees’ unutilised leave (2,894) (2,593)
GST payables (6,934) (241)
Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost 89,648 144,472
The average credit period for trade payables is 30 to 90 days (2019 : 30 to 90 days).
15 ADVANCES AND DEPOSITS RECEIVED
Included in advances and deposits received are $82,750 (2019 : $388,252) received from the
Government, which are to be disbursed for designated projects.
16 DEFERRED CAPITAL GRANTS
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
At beginning of year 212,979 149,182
Capital grants received 884 73,875
Less: Amortisation of deferred capital grant (16,067) (10,078)
At end of year 197,796 212,979
33

--- PAGE 119 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
17 LEASE LIABILITIES
2020
$’000
Maturity analysis:
1 year 17,890
2 to 5 years 36,492
More than 5 years 529
54,911
Less: Unearned interest (4,786)
50,125
Represented by:
Current 15,771
Non-current 34,354
50,125
18 SHARE CAPITAL
2020 2019 2020 2019
Number of ordinary shares $’000 $’000
‘000 ‘000
Issued and paid up:
At beginning of year 562,565 560,305 562,565 560,305
Equity injection (1) 4,019 2,260 4,019 2,260
At end of year 566,584 562,565 566,584 562,565
(1) Injections of capital in 2019 and 2020 are part of the Capital Management Framework for
Statutory Boards under Finance Circular Minute M26/2008. The shares have been fully paid for
to fund tourism-related assets and are held by the Minister for Finance, a body corporate
incorporated by the Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act (Chapter 183). The holder of these
shares, which has no par value, is entitled to receive dividends from the Board.
34

--- PAGE 120 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
19 TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
Trust and agency funds are set up to account for moneys held in trust where the Board is not the
owner and beneficiary of the funds. Income or expenses of these funds are taken directly to the funds.
The net assets relating to the funds are shown as a separate line item in the statement of financial
position.
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of year 31,147 343,307
Add: Receipts - funds received from the Government 467,383 135,136
Less: Funds disbursed/payable to:
- External parties (141,923) (444,675)
- Other government agencies (1,404) (2,621)
Balance at end of year 355,203 31,147
Represented by:
- Cash balances 355,587 23,758
- Other receivables 199 368
- Trade receivables - 7,908
- Trade payables (583) (441)
- Accruals - (446)
355,203 31,147
The trust and agency funds are used for tourism-related incentive schemes and for tourism-related
development projects.
20 OPERATING INCOME
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Events-related income 18,455 17,205
Lease income 17,572 7,976
Others 5,862 6,045
41,889 31,226
21 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Wages and salaries 69,180 63,854
Contributions to defined contribution plan 8,167 7,641
Other staff benefits 7,237 9,149
Depreciation on residential units 2,030 -
86,614 80,644
35

--- PAGE 121 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
22 INVESTMENT INCOME
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Interest income 7,891 7,894
Net fair value gain/(loss) on financial assets under fund
management (3,083) 2,512
Exchange gain/(loss) on financial assets under fund management 227 (213)
Expenses on financial assets under fund management (471) (467)
4,564 9,726
23 OTHER INCOME
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Interest income 1,349 1,098
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 1
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets 88,236 -
89,585 1,099
24 OTHER EXPENSES
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 73 -
Bad debt written off 4 -
Allowance for credit losses - 117
Interest expense on lease liabilities 2,712 -
2,789 117
25 CONTRIBUTION TO CONSOLIDATED FUND
The Board is required to make contributions to the Government Consolidated Fund in accordance with
the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated Fund) Act, Chapter 319A. The contribution
is based on the guidelines specified by the Ministry of Finance. It is computed at the prevailing
corporate tax rate based on the net surplus (if any) of the Board for each of the financial year adjusted
for any accumulated deficits brought forward from prior years. Contribution to consolidated fund is
provided on an accrual basis. The Board has $80,093,024 (2019 : $139,398,189) of unrecognised
deferred benefits relating to unutilised deficits to be carried forward to offset against future surplus.
36

--- PAGE 122 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
At the end of the financial year, STB has accumulated deficits carried forward as follows:
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Balance at beginning of the year 139,398 139,398
Amount utilised in current year (59,305) -
Balance at end of the year 80,093 139,398
Benefits on above not recognised at 17% (2019 : 17%) 13,616 23,698
Benefits in relation to the accumulated deficits were not recognised due to the unpredictability of
future surplus streams.
26 COMMITMENTS
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised in the financial
statements were analysed as follows:
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Amount contracted for capital expenditure 19,326 8,754
(b) Other commitments
During the financial year, the Board paid a total fee of $768,941 (2019 : $857,886) for the use
of the computer equipment and related services under Whole-of-Government Information
Communications Technology. These incurrences were recognised in the statement of comprehensive
income.
The future aggregate minimum committed payments at the reporting date but not recognised
as liabilities as at 31 March 2020 are as follows:
2020 2019
$’000 $’000
Within one year 644 825
In the second to fifth year inclusive 137 421
781 1,246
(c) In 2019, the Board guaranteed Singapore GP Pte Ltd for a standby letter of credit issued by a
bank for the purpose of the payment of the 2019 F1 race franchise fee.
37

--- PAGE 123 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
27 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
The Board as a lessee
Amount recognised in profit or loss relating to leases
2020
$’000
Expense relating to short-term leases 1,842
Expense relating to leases of low value assets 637
2,479
At 31 March 2020, the Board is committed to $485,000 for short-term lease and $277,000 for low
valued assets.
Before 1 April 2019
2019
$’000
Minimum lease payments under operating lease
included in profit or loss 7,380
At 31 March 2019, the Board had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases,
which fall due as follows:
2019
$’000
Within one year 6,154
In the second to fifth year inclusive 8,365
After fifth year 848
15,367
38

--- PAGE 124 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 March 2020
The Board as a lessor
The Board has entered into property leases. These leases typically run for an initial period of one to
fifteen years, with an option to renew the lease after that period. Lease income earned during the year
was $15,819,346 (2019 : $6,536,799).
2020
$’000
Maturity analysis:
Year 1 12,289
Year 2 11,999
Year 3 11,770
Year 4 9,324
Year 5 1,877
Year 6 onwards 4,218
51,477
The future aggregate minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases contracted
for at the reporting date but not recognised as receivables were analysed as follows:
2019
$’000
Within one year 12,789
In the second to fifth year inclusive 41,970
After fifth year 18
54,777
39

--- PAGE 125 ---

SINGAPORE TOURISM BOARD
Tourism Court
1 Orchard S pring Lane
Singapore 247729
www.stb.gov.sg